EDUCATION: AN INVESTMENT IN OUR FUTURE
  Experts agree that there is much more required for quality education than money. Nonetheless, the federal government is making a major investment to support state efforts to improve education. Since 1995, funding for the U.S. Department of Education has increased by nearly 150 percent, from $23 billion in 1996 to $57 billion in 2006. 
   In the past five years alone, there have been dramatic increases in education funding: a 40.1 percent ($6.97 billion) increase in No Child Left Behind Act funding; a 45.4 percent ($3.98 billion) increase for Title I grants for economically disadvantaged students; a 67 percent ($4.25 billion) increase for special education grants to states; a 400 percent increase for reading from $286 million in 2001 to $1.1 billion in 2005 (a 300 percent increase); and a 34 percent ($14.35 billion) increase in total federal education funding.  
   Of course, these monies must be aimed at achieving specific goals. The No Child Left Behind Act was passed to make sure that these federal funds are being dedicated to giving every child a quality education. Federally required testing will not only track averages, but also each child's progress. The object is to ensure that no children are left behind. 
   Responding to concerns that the additional resources were not being directed to school districts with growing populations of students, like those in Arizona, I worked with Senators from other rapidly growing states to include in the Act a provision directing the government to allot more Title I funds to high growth states. 
   Since the passage of No Child Left Behind Act in 2001, there have been clear results here in Arizona. This year, up to 98 percent of students with sufficient credits will pass the AIMS test and graduate from high school. This means that almost every Arizona student who strove to graduate this year was actually able to don the cap and gown and receive a diploma. It also means that our state will benefit from a new generation of young adults with the self-respect and values that come with successfully graduating. Many of these students will go on to our state's outstanding universities and become Arizona's next generation of leaders. 
   Things have also improved at the primary and elementary levels. In 2000, only 16 percent of fourth graders got a "proficient" score in math. By 2005, this number had almost doubled to 28 percent. Similarly, in 2000, only 20 percent of Arizona's eighth graders qualified as proficient in math. By 2005, this number had gradually climbed to 26. These numbers are still nowhere near respectable, but the direction they're going in is encouraging. 
   The trend shows that the accountability measures incorporated into No Child Left Behind are beginning to help Arizona's children. 
   The federal government has assisted college students for years. Since 1995, the amount a college student may borrow has been raised to historic levels, and the number of Pell Grants awarded to students has increased dramatically. Pell Grants will grow by $240 million and the number of recipients will increase by 59,000 to 5.3 million students. Funding for Pell Grants rose from $8.8 billion in 2001 to $13 billion in 2006. In 2006, the Department of Education expects to distribute over $77 billion in grants, loans, and other aid to over 10 million students. Recent legislation has also removed origination fees and costs from lenders, passing on the savings to students. And for those now entering school, keep in mind that the costs of student loans, including the interest accrued, are deferred until after graduation, and represent an investment in your future. 
   High quality public education is the key to America's success. It provides opportunities for children from disadvantaged backgrounds to compete with and overtake their more privileged peers. When the education system works properly, every child is able, through hard work and determination, to make his or her dreams of success become reality.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 