SEN. KYL PRAISES PASSAGE OF IRAQ SUPPLEMENTAL CONFERENCE REPORT
  Sen. Jon Kyl today applauded the final passage by the Senate of an $82.04 billion FY 2005 Emergency Supplemental bill that includes funding and new tools for the global war on terrorism as well as significant provisions to improve border enforcement.  
   Three major provisions from the Material Support to Terrorism Prohibition Improvements Act, which Kyl introduced earlier this year and reviewed in hearings before his Subcommittee on Terrorism, Technology and Homeland Security, are in the supplemental: 
   * Section 103(a) bars entry into the United States for representatives and members of terrorist groups and aliens who have received military-type training from groups they knew were terrorist in nature. 
   * Section 105(a)(1) expands the deportation of such aliens who may already be in the United States. 
   * Section 103(d) makes clear that terrorist-alien deportation and exclusion provisions apply to terrorist activity that the alien engaged in before the enactment of the supplemental.
  "In addition to these new tools for fighting terrorism, the border provisions of the supplemental will help strengthen the rule of law and improve homeland security against terrorist infiltration," Kyl said. 
   Passed by the House on Thursday, the bill includes significant new funding Kyl supported, including $635 million for increased border security, which will allow the hiring of 500 new border patrol agents, 50 immigration and Customs inspectors, 168 enforcement agents and detention officers, as well as 1,950 detention beds that will help prevent the release, for lack of a place to keep them, of those who should be deported. 
   Also included, as part of the House-passed Real ID Act, is a provision that states require proof of lawful presence in the United States for their driver's licenses to be accepted as identification for federal purposes, and that temporary licenses issued to foreign visitors expire when the visitor's visa expires 
   "Enforcing the law and controlling the border are among the most critical domestic challenges we face in the war against terrorism," Kyl said. "This funding will provide much needed help to the border and in the interior, but we're still a long way from achieving the kind of security we need."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 