BUSH TAX CUTS: ONE YEAR LATER
  By Sen. Jon Kyl
   Last year, a majority in Congress, working closely with President Bush, acted decisively to lower taxes for all taxpayers and small businesses to stimulate growth and help create jobs. May 28 will mark the one-year anniversary of enactment of this important law, the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003. 
   Now, others in Congress, including Senator John Kerry, have called for repealing some or all of this tax relief. Have the tax cuts hurt our economic recovery? Some Democrats would have us think so. Twelve months of economic data since the tax cuts were enacted, however, tell a different story. 
   Consider: Real gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of 8.2 percent in the third quarter of 2003, 4.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2003, and 4.2 percent in the first quarter of 2004. This is the fastest three-quarter growth rate in nearly two decades. At this pace, our economy would double in size in 13 years. 
   According to the payroll survey, 288,000 new jobs were created in April, preceded by 337,000 in March. Over 1.1 million new jobs have been created over the last eight months. In June of 2003, when the tax cuts went into effect, the national unemployment rate was 6.3 percent. Less than a year later, it has dropped 11 percent to 5.6 percent, which is lower than the average unemployment rate of the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s. Last week, new jobless claims fell to 315,000 - the lowest level since before the 2000 election. 
   Congress lowered the tax rate on dividends from 39.6 percent to 15 percent last year in order to make dividend-paying stocks more valuable, and to induce companies to improve corporate governance and raise dividend payouts to shareholders. The return on this tax cut has been greater than even its most ardent supporters predicted. One year later, the stock market has risen (on average) by 25 percent, and, according to Thomas Smith, the president of Prescott Associates, companies have increased dividend payments to shareholders by 40 percent, reversing a two-decade decline. Companies that began paying dividends following the tax cut include Best Buy, MGM, and Microsoft; other companies like Citigroup and Nike dramatically increased their dividends-per-share. 
   Business investment - the area that has hesitated most in joining the economic recovery - is hesitating no longer. It has increased by seven percent or more in each of the last four quarters, and manufacturing activity has increased for 11 consecutive months. The causes are many. The dividends and capital gains tax cuts (capital gains taxes were reduced from 20 percent to 15 percent) made it much more attractive for investors to risk their hard-earned money in the markets, giving companies a needed infusion of capital to expand their businesses. Also, reducing individual tax rates encouraged people to work harder and longer and also gave people a greater ability to make purchases. Add to that record low interest rates and a strong housing market, and individuals and families have rarely been on a more sound economic footing. 
   Every economist I know agrees that last year's tax cuts have been instrumental in putting Americans back on the path to growth and prosperity. So when politicians say when they need more of your money so they can spend it - for your own good, of course - beware. Raising taxes would not just hurt upper-income taxpayers, it would also jeopardize continued economic growth, to the detriment of all taxpayers. None of us should want that.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705
 
 