SENS. KYL, CORNYN INTEND TO INTRODUCE COMPREHENSIVE BORDER, IMMIGRATION REFORM
  Sens. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) and John Cornyn (R-TX) today announced their intention to introduce comprehensive immigration reform legislation that would address border security as well as the economic and political realities that have drawn millions of illegal aliens into the United States and continue to attract more. Both cautioned, however, against attempts to attach immigration-related amendments to the pending Iraq supplemental appropriation.  
   "What the nation's immigration system needs most is a commitment to enforce the law," Kyl said. "That means not just more resources, but also the will to enforce the law." 
   Kyl and Cornyn expressed support in separate floor statements for the basic principle, outlined by President Bush, of an enforceable temporary worker program. But Kyl strongly emphasized that such a proposal should not be confused with any form of "amnesty" that rewards illegal behavior. "We have to start at the border - provide the resources to enforce the law there, particularly against the new threat of terrorist infiltration - and then follow up with a credible system of worker eligibility verification enabling employers to confirm they are not hiring illegal immigrants," he said. "Where there is a need for more labor, we can create a better system for hiring temporary workers - but it all needs to be done within the law." 
   Kyl chairs the Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Terrorism, Technology & Homeland Security, and Cornyn chairs the Subcommittee on Immigration, Border Security & Citizenship. The subcommittees have already held a joint on hearing border security and are scheduled to hold another on interior enforcement on Thursday. Several more will follow, exploring various aspects of the problem. 
   "Much damage has already been done to the notion of respect for the rule of law and to our national security by our failure to pass serious immigration reform," Kyl said. "We need to do it this year; and by giving employers better options for hiring temporary workers, we can eliminate the magnet of illegal employment that is drawing so many poorer people from other countries to illegally come to the United States."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 