REFLECTIONS ON FOURTH OF JULY
  By Sen. Jon Kyl
   It's easy to become jaded and cynical working in Washington, DC. That's why I so much enjoyed spending the Fourth of July weekend in Show Low, Springerville and Greer, Arizona. As my son remarked after a barbecue, "I can't believe the difference between the talking heads in Washington and these real people." 
   While professional politicos are consumed with an election that is four months away, mired in angst over Iraq and endlessly arguing over the strength of the economic recovery, the people I talked to in the White Mountains area were full of typical straightforward American optimism about the future. Many said their biggest concern, in fact, was the extent to which political naysayers have managed to sow seeds of self-doubt about our economic recovery and the war on terrorism. FDR's immortal declaration that "we have nothing to fear but fear itself" springs to mind.
   I was honored to speak at a Fourth of July ceremony at which veterans of several wars joined in a 200-year-old national tradition, taking turns ringing a bell at exactly 11 a.m., the same time as a larger annual event at the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia. It was a profoundly moving experience, which I concluded with these remarks:
   "Shortly before his death in 1826, Thomas Jefferson wrote a letter to a man named Roger Weightman in which Jefferson explained the reasoning behind the Declaration of Independence. The letter states: "All eyes are opened, or opening, to the rights of man. The general spread of the light of science has already laid open to every view the palpable truth, that the mass of mankind has not been born with saddle on their backs, nor a favored few booted and spurred, ready to ride them legitimately, by the grace of God. These are the grounds of hope for others. For ourselves, let the annual return of this day forever refresh our recollections of these rights, and an undiminished devotion to them."
   Our annual observation of Independence Day should include reflection upon two critical truths, lest we lose sight of them.
   First, an acknowledgment of what we as Americans must do to preserve our rights for ourselves and future generations. Freedom is not free; and that means more than being willing to go to war. In some ways, it is even harder to remain focused in good times on the need to preserve our freedoms by resisting the temptation to give ever more power to government - to do for us what we could do for ourselves. As Barry Goldwater reminded us, a government powerful enough to take care of us is a government powerful enough to take our rights from us. I believe Jefferson, Adams, and the rest of the founding fathers would be shocked and concerned about the amount of power we have ceded to the federal government - and the degree of diminishment of our freedoms as a result.
   The second reason to refresh our recollection of the ringing words of the declaration is because, as Jefferson wrote, "Here are grounds of hope for others." Our attention these days has shifted from the captive nations of the Soviet empire to the millions who would be ruled by the totalitarian force of radical Islam, and the hopes and aspirations of the free people of Afghanistan and Iraq. No less than the Nazis or Communists, the terrorists of radical Islam have engaged us in a fight to the finish, whether we recognize it or not. It is the challenge of this - our - generation to commit ourselves, no less than did our founders, to victory. Our enemies would not disagree with Thomas Paine's formulation: that we will have either liberty or death - there is no middle ground in our current struggle.
   So on this glorious day, let us refresh our recollections of our rights, the source of those rights and the sacrifice others have made to preserve them - and to rededicate ourselves to do our duty as God would have us do it to protect his gift of these rights to us.
 
 