SEN. KYL CRITICIZES SENATE VOTE ON MARRIAGE AMENDMENT
  Sen. Jon Kyl said today that the Senate's vote against a motion to proceed to debate on a constitutional marriage amendment amounts to "a setback for our society's most stabilizing and important institution - traditional marriage - as well as a failure to accept our responsibility as legislators to begin to deal with the issue rather than leaving it to lawyers and judges. 
   "A marriage between a man and a woman is universally acknowledged to provide the best and healthiest environment for raising children. It's hard to imagine a more fundamental societal issue, or one more deserving of protection," Kyl added. "As a nation, we've already grappled with this question and resolved it - with broad consensus - in the debate over whether to admit Utah as a state, when Congress required Utah to recognize only marriages between one man and one woman.
   "To the extent that the traditional definition of marriage should be reconsidered at all - despite the wisdom and tradition of virtually all of human history - that process should take place within the realm of legislatures or citizens working directly through the ballot initiative process. Judges should not be inventing imaginary provisions in state constitutions, denouncing traditional marriage as a 'stain' that must be washed away, or scoffing at the 'mantra of tradition,' as the Massachusetts Supreme Court put it. But for this lack of judicial restraint, we wouldn't have arrived at this unfortunate point to begin with," Kyl said.
   "It is unrealistic to assume that same-sex marriage can be isolated in some states but not others because of the federal Defense of Marriage Act," Kyl added. "That legislation didn't stop Massachusetts' Supreme Court, and it won't stop other judges sympathetic to activist groups that are already seeking to bypass the legislative process and impose their agenda in more than 11 states. Even if the Defense of Marriage Act survives review by the U.S. Supreme Court, which is by no means a given, simple logistics make it unavoidable that states will be forced to contend with the policies of other states in everything from marriage dissolution to financial adjudication." "The constitutional amendment process is the most democratic, the most grass roots, the most respectful process available for the establishment of national policy, with extremely high hurdles, and appropriately so. It guarantees that the American people have a full and complete opportunity to speak to the issue, that they can express their views to their Senators, their Congressmen, and their state legislators. It takes time. But in the end, if a constitutional amendment passes - as opposed to a court decision - we know that the American people truly want it. And that is the very foundation of self-government."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 