SENATE APPROVES BIPARTISAN AMENDMENT ON LEGAL RIGHTS OF TERRORIST DETAINEES
  Sen. Jon Kyl today co-sponsored, along with sens. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Carl Levin (D-MI), an amendment to clarify the review process for detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and limit the access to U.S. courts of non-citizen terrorists held there.  
   "As a society, we have an obligation to provide a meaningful legal process for prisoners in the war against terrorism - even to those who would kill us all in an instant if given half a chance," Kyl said. "That commitment is one of the things that makes America worth defending. But it is by no means the same thing as giving foreign terrorists all the rights and privileges of American citizens, particularly when we're in a state of war." 
   The amendment would codify the traditional assumption, overturned by the recent Supreme Court decision in Rasul v. Bush, that the federal habeas corpus statute does not grant aliens detained outside the United States as enemy combatants the unfettered right to petition U.S. federal courts. The amendment would, instead, allow limited judicial review of military courts' decisions at Guantanamo. 
   A Combatant Status Review Tribunal (CSRT) system now allows detainees at Guantanamo to challenge their designation as enemy combatants, and the status of each is assessed annually by an Administrative Review Board (ARB) that includes three disinterested military officers; one is a judge advocate senior ranking officer who serves as president of the tribunal. Each detainee is assigned a military officer as a personal representative who assists in hearing preparation. Detainees have the right to testify before the tribunal, call witnesses, and introduce any other evidence. The ARB makes a recommendation to a Designated Civilian Official (DCO) - currently Acting Deputy Secretary of Defense Gordon England - who makes the final decision whether to release, transfer, or continue to detain the individual. Those determined not to be enemy combatants are transferred to their country of citizenship or other location consistent with domestic and international obligations and U.S. foreign policy. 
   This process meets the conditions of the Geneva Convention, despite the fact that members of Al Qaeda do not qualify for Geneva protections for multiple reasons. The amendment, offered to the Department of Defense Authorization bill, strengthens the system by forbidding the tribunals from considering information obtained via undue coercion, and by directing the Secretary of Defense to notify the relevant Congressional committee of procedural modifications within 60 days. 
   The amendment provides a CSRT appellate procedure, granting exclusive jurisdiction to the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit to review the validity of any decision of the DCO. For an enemy combatant to be able to present an appeal, he must be detained by the Department of Defense at Guantanamo Bay, and a CSRT must first have been conducted. The scope of the subject matter review of an appeal is limited to whether the CSRT status determination was consistent with the procedures and standards specified, and whether subjecting an alien enemy combatant to such procedures and standards is consistent with the Constitution and laws of the United States. 
   Separately, the amendment provides for a DC Circuit Court review of final decisions of military commissions authorized by President Bush in certain instances for enemy combatants. This right of appeal is automatic for capital cases and those in which the alien enemy combatant is sentenced to a term of imprisonment of 10 years or more. It is discretionary regarding other cases, and is limited to aliens detained by the Department of Defense at Guantanamo Bay for whom a final decision has been rendered by a military commission. Its scope is limited to whether the final decision of the military commission was consistent with specified procedures; and whether subjecting an alien enemy combatant to such a military commission is consistent with the Constitution and laws of the United States. 
   "It's important to make clear that this amendment does not change the habeas rights of American citizens," Kyl said. "It's simply a necessary clarification since, for the first time in our history, foreign terrorists in large numbers have begun to claim the same benefits as citizens under the Constitution and our laws and treaties." 
   More than 160 habeas cases have been brought on behalf of approximately 300 Guantanamo detainees in the DC Circuit Court. Without reform, all 500 detainees at the facility could demand a trial on whether the government correctly classified them as enemy combatants. Michael Ratner, a lawyer for numerous Guantanamo detainees, has boasted that this litigation has undermined intelligence gathering in the war on terror, telling Mother Jones magazine in March that: 
   "The litigation is brutal for [the Untied States]. It's huge. We have over one hundred lawyers now from big and small firms working to represent these detainees. Every time an attorney goes down there, it makes it that much harder [for the U.S. military] to do what they're doing. You can't run an interrogation...with attorneys. What are they going to do now that we're getting court orders to get more lawyers down there?"
   "Obviously," Kyl said, "we don't want terrorists suing our own troops to prevent the perfectly appropriate interrogation of detainees."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 