SEN. KYL URGES QUICK PASSAGE OF BOUNDARY CHANGE FOR HISTORIC YUMA AREA
  Sen. Jon Kyl urged quick passage of legislation to modify the boundaries of a historic area of Yuma today at a hearing of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee's Subcommittee on National Parks.  
   The Yuma Crossing National Heritage Area Boundary Adjustment Act (S. 505), also sponsored by Sen. John McCain, amends the legislation passed in 2000 to adjust the boundary of the Yuma Crossing National Heritage Area to conform to the lines set forth in the Heritage Area Management Plan approved by the Secretary of the Interior in 2002. 
   The Yuma Crossing Heritage Area was designated in October 2000, the product of a preliminary concept plan completed in 1999 by the Heritage Area Task Force. The boundaries proposed in that plan included approximately 22 square miles, extending from the Colorado River on the north and west to the Avenue 7E alignment on the east and the 12th street alignment on the south. 
   "These boundaries represented the task force's 'best guess' at the time as to the cultural landscape warranting inclusion in the heritage area," Kyl said. "During the development of the final Heritage Area Management Plan, which was subject to comprehensive community involvement, it became apparent that the boundaries were too large and should be more concentrated along the Colorado River and in historic downtown. Rather than simply leave the boundaries as they were set in the 2000 legislation, we have heard from the community in Yuma that it is important to conform the boundaries to those in the agreed-upon Management Plan. 
   "Doing so will provide certainty to the heritage area and those private landowners who live within its current boundaries," Kyl added. "It will allow the heritage area to meet its management goals and responsibilities without the worry that private property rights may be affected in the future. It is a non-controversial, straightforward correction, and I hope my colleagues will work with me to pass it quickly this year." 
   Companion legislation, introduced by Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), passed the House of Representatives today.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 