SEN. KYL'S BILL WOULD BLOCK U.N. 'GLOBAL TAXES'
  Sen. Kyl today introduced legislation expressing U.S. opposition to any effort by the United Nations to impose an "international" or "global" tax, vowing to use the nation's vote, voice and influence to block any such effort by the UN or its affiliated agencies.  
   On September 14-16, the UN General Assembly has scheduled a plenary meeting to consider the implementation of "Millennium Development Goals" listed in the report of its 2002 International Conference on Financing for Development. Known as the "Monterrey Consensus," it envisioned an obligation on the part of the United States and other developed nations to expend 0.7 percent of their gross national income on foreign aid. Other proposed international tax mechanisms have been aimed at international currency transactions, aviation fuel, airline passenger tickets, and carbon emissions. "The idea of UN-imposed taxes would be an affront to national sovereignty even if the organization were a paragon of righteousness and sound management, which it most clearly is not," Kyl said. "It's particularly galling given the UN's current record of waste and grotesque scandal, from oil-for-food to 'peacekeepers' who rape and exploit those they are supposed to be protecting." 
   The United States already pays nearly one-fourth of the UN's $2 billion annual budget - far more than any other member state - and also provides uncounted billions in logistical and other military assistance. 
   The U.S. House of Representatives recently endorsed, by a wide margin, the recommendation of International Relations Committee Chairman Henry Hyde (R-IL) to make future American payments to the UN contingent upon the adoption of a set of wide-ranging reforms. Kyl also plans to co-sponsor a bill being crafted by Sen. James Inhofe (R-OK) that would require the withholding of United States contributions until the President certifies that the United Nations is not engaged in global taxation schemes.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 