SEN. KYL'S LETTER URGES KEY SUBCOMMITTEE TO INCREASE FUNDING FOR INCARCERATING CRIMINAL ALIENS
  Sen. Kyl today released the text of a letter requesting that the Commerce, Justice and Science Subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations Committee increase funding for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) in the FY 2006 appropriations bill. The letter, also signed by Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and several other senators, notes that "Immigration policy and control of our borders is an exclusively federal responsibility. Yet it is our state prisons and county jails that are incurring the heavy cost of incarcerating undocumented criminal aliens. We strongly believe that local taxpayers should not have to foot the bill for incarcerating illegal aliens convicted of criminal offenses in state and local jails."  
   The House version of the bill included $405 billion for SCAAP, but the Senate subcommittee bill would provide only $200 million. Kyl's letter requests at least the House's funding level, citing both an earlier reauthorization bill and a "Sense of the Senate" amendment to the Budget Resolution (both of which he originated) that SCAAP should be funded at approximately $750 million. 
   For fiscal years 2003 and 2004, Arizona state prisons incarcerated 4,743 criminal aliens at a total cost of more than $71 million but received only $9 million in SCAAP funding. This year, the Arizona Department of Corrections estimates that its 4,220 criminal alien inmates will cost $84 million, of which the state will be reimbursed barely 10 percent. 
   "Arizona and other border states cannot afford to bear such a disproportionate burden indefinitely," Kyl said Tuesday. "Illegal immigration is a national problem and so are criminal aliens, both a result of the federal government's failure to control the border. That same federal government should accept more responsibility for the consequences of that failure."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 