SEN. KYL-BACKED WILDFIRE BILL PASSES SENATE
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ), a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, hailed the Senate's passage today of legislation dedicated to providing long-term scientific support for the design and implementation of thinning and restoration treatments to reduce catastrophic wildfire and restore forest health.  
   The Southwest Forest Health and Wildfire Prevention Act of 2004 (H.R. 2696), passed the House of Representatives in February. Senator Kyl was the lead author in the Senate and architect for the legislation. 
   The legislation directs the Ecological Restoration Institute (ERI) at Northern Arizona University in Flagstaff, New Mexico Highlands University and a not yet designated institute in Colorado, to assist in the research, design and implementation of effective forest health management. It provides a $15 million annual authorization in the federal budget to support the ongoing work of the Institutes. 
   The ERI, headed by Dr. Wally Covington, is one of the only research institutes in the country that designs and implements forest treatment on a landscape scale. 
   "We are at a crossroads in forest management," said Kyl. "We can spend billions to suppress catastrophic wildfire or we can take action to prevent them from occurring. Over the next twenty years land managers will be treating millions of acres of forest to reduce the threat of wildfire and beetle outbreaks. To do the job right we must apply science-based treatments designed to restore forest health and wildlife habitat. The ERI at NAU, under Wally Covington's leadership, develops the practical, applied science required to do this important job correctly." 
   Kyl agrees that restoration treatments are the key to saving our forests and stopping devastating crown fires. Many treatments are too focused on lessening hazardous fuel only and not comprehensive treatment. They treat a symptom, but are not the cure. This legislation brings science to the forest through design and implementation of forest restoration, on a landscape scale, which promotes the long-term goal of forest health. 
   Kyl has long recognized the ERI's unique success in actually healing forests, rather than simply generating research that is neither implemented nor used by land managers. With the appropriate state and federal support, the Senator said he believed the Institutes recognized by this legislation will teach the interior west how to treat millions of acres of vulnerable lands to lower the threat of catastrophic fires and restore ecosystems. 
   The passed bill will now be sent to President Bush, who is expected to sign it into law.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 