SENS. MCCAIN, KYL APPLAUD HOUSE PASSAGE OF YAVAPAI LAND EXCHANGE BILL
  Sens. John McCain and Jon Kyl commended the House today for passing the Northern Arizona Land Exchange and Verde River Basin Partnership Act of 2005. The legislation sponsored in the House by Rep. Renzi and J.D. Hayworth, provides a sound framework for the exchange of 50,000 acres of private and public land in Northern Arizona. The bill, which passed the Senate in July, will now go to the President.  
   The land swap, commonly known as the "Yavapai land exchange," consolidates the largest remaining checkerboard ownership in the state; improves the management of forest lands and conservation of natural resources; as well as provides communities with an opportunity to acquire land needed for economic development, community services, and open space. 
   The bill also addresses the water issues raised by the exchange of lands located within the Verde River Basin watershed by limiting water usage on certain exchanged lands. In addition, it supports the development of a collaborative, science-based water resource planning and management entity for the Verde River Basin watershed. 
   "This is a hallmark day for the people of Arizona. This compromise bill is both balanced and foresighted in addressing land use, economic development, and water issues in Northern Arizona." McCain said, adding, "I commend Congressmen Renzi and Hayworth for pushing this important legislation though the House and I encourage the President to move forward with timely enactment." 
   Senator Kyl added, "Today's house passage marks the culmination of nearly a decade of work, involving Congress, Yavapai Ranch, the U.S. Forest Service, community groups, local officials and other stakeholders. Nearly 25,000 ecologically significant acres in the headwaters of the Verde Valley wll be protected and enjoyed by future generations. And the bill's requirements for responsible water use set an important precedent for the entire state."
   Contact: Andrea Jones, 202/224-7130; Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 