SEN. KYL URGES CHAIRMAN COCHRAN, CONFEREES TO INCLUDE $1.9 BILLION FOR BORDER SECURITY
  As the Senate and House begin conference negotiations on H.R. 4939, the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery for FY 2006, Sen. Jon Kyl joined a group of Senators Tuesday in sending a letter to Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Thad Cochran (R-MS), urging him and the conferees to include the $1.9 billion in capital improvements for border security that was added during Senate consideration of the bill.
   The group of Senators include: Gregg (R-NH), Frist (R-TN), Santorum (R-PA), Kyl (R-AZ), Hutchison (R-TX), Grassley (R-IA), Domenici (R-NM), Ensign (R-NV), Alexander (R-TN), Murkowski (R-AK), Coleman (R-MN), Isakson (R-GA), Cornyn (R-TX), Sununu (R-NH), Enzi (R-WY), Craig (R-WY), Roberts (R-KS), and Thomas (R-WY). 
   The measure, co-sponsored by Kyl, was introduced and adopted by the Senate on April 26. It designates an additional $1.9 billion in funding for border security infrastructure initiatives, including technology, vehicle, and law enforcement tools to assist in fortifying the nation's borders. The cost of the amendment is fully offset in the bill.
   "In the post 9/11 world, and in light of the dramatic number of people who have been coming into the country illegally, we can no longer afford the open border policy we have had with our neighbors to the north and the south for much of our nation's history," the group of Senators said in the letter. "A large part of national defense must be securing our borders so that we know who is coming into our country and most importantly knowing whether or not they are coming into our nation to do us harm."
   "We believe this funding for critical border security infrastructure needs is a paramount national security concern that must be provided as part of this Emergency Supplemental bill as an integral part of the larger War on Terror?we urge [Cochran] and the conferees to include the $1.9 billion in capital improvements for border security that passed with near unanimous support in the Senate."
   The full text of the letter follows.
   The Honorable Thad Cochran Chairman U.S. Senate Committee on Appropriations Washington, DC 20510
   Dear Thad:
   As the Senate and House begin conference negotiations on H.R. 4939, the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery for FY 2006, we urge you and the conferees to include the $1.9 billion in capital improvements for Border Security that passed with near unanimous support in the Senate. Of course, these Border Security funds should be provided within the $94.5 billion total that the President has indicated he will support for the bill as a whole.
   In the post 9/11 world, and in light of the dramatic number of people who have been coming into the country illegally, we can no longer afford the open border policy we have had with our neighbors to the north and the south for much of our nation's history. A large part of national defense must be securing our borders so that we know who is coming into our country and most importantly knowing whether or not they are coming into our nation to do us harm.
   Over the last several years, Congress has engaged in an aggressive effort to increase both the size and resources of our border patrol agencies -the Border Patrol, the Coast Guard, and the Immigration and Customs Enforcement at the Department of Homeland Security. For example, in last year's Homeland Security Appropriations bill, we increased the number of border patrol agents by 1,500; the number of detention officers by 650; and the number of detention beds by 10 percent. The President, like Congress, has also made a strong commitment to increasing our border security efforts. The ultimate goal is to increase the number of agents to 20,000 and the number of detentions beds to 10,000 -along with the necessary personnel to support and operate them.
   Unfortunately, we are limited in our ability to increase the number of agents, officers, and detention beds, and to bulk up other capacities along the border, because the infrastructure to support these efforts is unable to support larger and faster increases. We simply cannot train more personnel, fly more missions, or conduct more patrols due to outdated, broken, and obsolete buildings, vehicles, aircraft, and equipment.
   That is why the Senate voted almost unanimously -the only difference being whether the funding was or was not offset -to provide $1.9 billion on an emergency basis to pay for the most urgent needs regarding our nation's Border Security infrastructure. The money will pay to repair, replace, update, and augment training facilities, vehicles, aircraft, surveillance equipment, and to meet other critical infrastructure needs.
   We believe this funding for critical Border Security infrastructure needs is a paramount national security concern that must be provided as part of this Emergency Supplemental bill as an integral part of the larger War on Terror and should be included within the funding requested by the President to fight that war.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 