YAVAPAI LAND EXCHANGE BENEFITS ENVIRONMENT, COMMUNITIES
  By Jon Kyl
   After several years of negotiations involving Congress, Yavapai Ranch, the U.S. Forest Service, community groups, local officials and other stakeholders, legislation finally passed last week that will provide a framework for the exchange of 50,000 acres of private and public land in Northern Arizona, consolidating the largest remaining checkerboard property ownership in the state.  
   This complex bill, known formally as the Northern Arizona Land Exchange and Verde River Basin Partnership Act of 2005 but generally referred to as the "Yavapai land exchange," will preserve nearly 25,000 ecologically significant acres in the headwaters of the Verde Valley to be enjoyed by future generations. It also includes requirements for responsible water use that set an important precedent for the entire state, and supports the development of a collaborative, science-based water resource planning and management entity for the Verde River Basin watershed. 
   It's not often that we can augment a national forest while at the same time provide communities with the opportunity to acquire new land for economic development, community services, and the sublime pleasure of simple open space. But that's what this bill does, by facilitating the voluntary exchange of ownership of numerous intermingled plots of public and private land to consolidate them into contiguous parcels that follow natural boundaries and lend themselves to more logical and efficient use. 
   The redrawn map will enable the Forest Service to dramatically improve the management of the Prescott National Forest, increasing both its potential for public enjoyment as well as the protection of its fragile ecosystem and critical animal habitats. Rangers will also be able to effectively apply restoration treatments to reduce the fire risk and improve the overall health of the forest. Given Arizona's history of devastating fires, it's hard to exaggerate the benefits here for ourselves and future generations. The new boundaries will soon include the largest stand of privately-owned pine forests in the state, including old growth ponderosa pine, along with one of Arizona's last untouched antelope valleys. 
   The economic benefits of the Yavapai exchange are no less impressive than the environmental ones. Several Northern Arizona communities will benefit from increased ability to accommodate future growth and development, and meet other municipal needs. 
   Flagstaff and Williams, for example, will face significantly fewer obstacles to expanding their airports, improving water treatment, and developing business and town parks and recreation areas. The town of Camp Verde will have the opportunity to acquire land to build an emergency center, protect its viewshed, and improve its tax base. Several youth organizations will also be able to acquire land for their camps that they must currently lease. 
   All of those benefits notwithstanding, the most important dimension of the Yavapai exchange bill is its provisions encouraging the sound management of water resources. In helping put this bill together, I received a great deal of input on this issue from state and local officials and our constituents affected by the land exchange. Two key features of the bill are the result: 
   * First, it establishes a conservation easement on the Camp Verde General Crook parcel, which limits water use after private acquisition to just 300 acre-feet a year. This limitation was strengthened from the previous versions of the bill, which set the limit at 700 acre-feet a year. 
   * Secondly, the bill facilitates and encourages the creation of the Verde River Basin Partnership, a partnership between federal, state, and local stakeholders to examine water issues in the long term. This collaborative, multi-stakeholder group will be authorized to receive federal assistance to develop the scientific and technical data needed to recommend sound water-management policies.
   In sum, this land exchange offers a unique opportunity to protect and improve Arizona's natural resources, accommodate the state's tremendous growth, and plan for the future. We owe our children to take advantage of it.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 