WORKING TOGETHER
  A recent situation involving the Town of Marana is a good illustration of how federal, state, and local officials can work together to resolve a problem.  
   In Marana, large residential areas are protected from flooding by three levee-like structures: Interstate Highway I-10, the Southern Pacific Railroad, and the Central Arizona Project (CAP) canal. All three of these structures have provided sufficient protection during previous floods, and until recently, all three had been accredited by Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the agency tasked with responding to natural disasters (i.e., floods). 
   FEMA, however, is currently in the process of updating the nation's flood map to identify areas that are prone to flooding. As a result of a new FEMA policy regarding levee-like structures, draft flood maps showed that the flood protection for the Town of Marana was inadequate. 
   If the maps were finalized, large sections of the community would be placed in the floodplain, forcing homeowners in Marana to buy costly flood insurance. The financial consequences for affected property-owners, some of whom live on fixed incomes, would be severe. In addition, many real estate developers were threatening to pull economic development projects in Marana, further straining the local economy. 
   The Town of Marana argued that hydrological studies would show that the levee-like structures provide adequate flood protection. The town, however, was unable to present evidence to FEMA officials and turned to congressional offices for assistance. Understanding the impact the new FEMA policy could have on Marana and other local communities in the state, I immediately coordinated with Senator McCain, Congresswoman Giffords, FEMA, and Marana officials. 
   FEMA agreed to issue a letter acknowledging that the draft flood maps are not final, and that the maps do not recognize the potential flood mitigation effects of the levee-like structures. Marana officials, as a result, will have the chance to submit hydrological studies to prove that the levee-like structures do protect the town from flooding, and if it is proven that they do, FEMA will adjust the flood maps accordingly. Finally, FEMA agreed to provide similar consideration for any other Arizona community that might find itself in a similar situation as Marana. 
   Though the final outcome of the flood maps is pending, the progress that has been made illustrates how federal legislators (Republican and Democrat) can effectively work with local governments by helping to open communication channels with federal agencies. 
   Of course, until this matter is finally resolved I will continue to stay engaged on this issue to ensure that the modified flood map adequately reflects the flood protection in place in Marana, and in the rest of the state. And I encourage other communities that are potentially affected by the new FEMA policies and maps to please contact my office so we can try to assist them as well.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 