SEN. KYL ANNOUNCES $42 MILLION IN HHS REIMBURSEMENT FOR ARIZONA EMERGENCY CARE FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS
  Sen. Jon Kyl today announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) will provide Arizona hospitals with $42 million to help compensate for the costs of providing federally-mandated emergency medical services to illegal aliens. It is the third highest level of funding, behind only California and Texas. 
   "It is unfair for Arizona's hospitals to bear a hugely disproportionate burden for mandated emergency health treatment for illegal aliens," Kyl said. "This reimbursement level is a good first step toward adequate reimbursement, although we will need to work closely with both HHS and state health care providers to ensure that the money is distributed equitably and the program is designed the right way. It's also critical to maintain flexibility so that funding can be increased appropriately when better cost data becomes available from the new claims-based evaluation system."
   The estimated annual cost to hospitals and other providers of emergency health care nationwide for illegal aliens - which is mandated but not reimbursed by the federal Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act - is $1.45 billion. According to congressionally-commissioned research from the MTG Corporation, the annual cost to just the 24 counties along the border in Texas, New Mexico California and Texas exceeds $200 million. The result has been dire fiscal crises for a number of hospitals around the country. "This affects everyone who needs emergency medical care," Kyl said. "Many hospitals have had to close their emergency rooms, or are barely hanging on. In other states, including New York, Illinois, Florida, Georgia and New Jersey, there's a very real danger of the quality of care being dragged down to substandard levels for everyone. It's inevitable when you have too many sick people and not enough resources."
   Kyl also noted that the reimbursement program should help raise national awareness of the costs related to illegal immigration. "A lot of other states don't feel that illegal immigration as a major problem because it's not perceived as their problem," Kyl said. "But the reality is that illegal immigration is a genuinely national issue, and resolving it requires a national commitment not just on health care but also border control, law enforcement and other resources."
   The reimbursement funding was made available by a Kyl-authored provision in the Medicare reform bill to provide a total of $1 billion to reimburse states for the costs of providing federally-mandated, but unfunded, emergency medical care to illegal aliens ($250 million a year for four years).
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 