SENS. KYL, MCCAIN INTRODUCE IMPROVED SOUTHEAST ARIZONA LAND EXCHANGE AND CONSERVATION ACT
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) today introduced a modified version of S.1122, the Southeast Arizona Land Exchange and Conservation Act. In addition to protecting some of the most environmentally sensitive lands in Arizona, the new bill will facilitate the creation of a new Arizona state park focused on recreational climbing. Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) is as a co-sponsor of the bill.  
   "This modified bill is a culmination of months of negotiation with members of the rock climbing community, local and state stakeholders, and other interested parties," Kyl said. "It's an effort to strengthen the land exchange in a way that better meets the needs of outdoor recreation, conservation, resource protection, and mining interests. This is a win for Arizona environmentally and economically." 
   The proposed state park is in Tam O'Shanter Mountains, Gila County, and has rock formations with excellent climbing opportunities. If created, the park would be the only state park in the nation that focuses on rock climbing. 
   This modified bill does even more for environmental conservation and effective land management than the original by adding to the private land package two additional parcels: East Clear Creek and Dripping Springs. 
   The Dripping Springs parcel encompasses 160 acres in the Dripping Springs Mountains and will fall within the boundaries of the proposed state park. 
   The East Clear Creek parcel encompasses 640 acres and is one of the largest single blocks of private inholdings within the Coconino National Forest. This unique landscape is a wildlife transition zone between the upper plateau dominated by ponderosa pine and the riparian corridor of the creek, allowing it to support several threatened and sensitive species including bald eagle, peregrine falcon, fish, reptile and amphibian species and big game species such as Rocky Mountain elk, mule deer, turkey, and black bear. 
   The exchange also conveys approximately 3,025 acres of land controlled by the Forest Service to Resolution Copper Company. The acreage to be traded to Resolution Copper will facilitate future exploration of copper ore, which is important to Arizona's economy.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705; Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-2206.
 
 