SEN. KYL APPLAUDS SENATE PASSAGE OF INDIAN ARTS AND CRAFTS ACT UPDATE
  Sen. Jon Kyl today praised the Senate's passage of legislation to strengthen the investigative and enforcement authorities of the Indian Arts and Crafts Act of 1990.  
   "Native arts and crafts are the only indigenous art of America," Kyl said. "Imitation reproductions and knock-offs undercut the sale of genuine articles, discouraging young Native Americans from learning traditional artisans' techniques. The disappearance of these traditions would be a tremendous loss to the entire country's cultural heritage." 
   Kyl introduced the bill along with Sen. John McCain, who chairs the Senate Indian Affairs Committee. The original act, co-authored by Kyl and former Sen. Ben Nighthorse Campbell when both were members of the House of Representatives, was enacted in response to growing sales of arts and crafts products misrepresented as being produced by Indians. Essentially a "truth-in-advertising" law, with civil and criminal provisions, it prohibits the marketing of products as "Indian made" when such products are not made by Indians as defined by the Act. It is intended to protect Indian artists and craftspeople, businesses, tribes, consumers and our cultural heritage. 
   "Since the passage of the 1990 act, we have had an opportunity to assess its effectiveness and make some updates and other changes," Kyl said. "Law enforcement, in particular, needs strengthening. Today's legislation expands the investigative authority under the Act to include all federal law enforcement officers, allowing agencies beyond the FBI with expertise in Indian issues and cultural resources, such as the Bureau of Indian Affairs law enforcement and the Department of Interior Cultural Resources, to also investigate complaints and work with Department of Justice attorneys to prosecute these cases. 
   "I believe these amendments to the Act will strengthen the investigative and enforcement authority under the Act and increase the number of complaints that are investigated and prosecuted," Kyl said. "These violations are serious, and we need to provide the necessary federal resources to preserve the cultural heritage of our Native people."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 