SEN. KYL LEGISLATION TO HELP ALLEVIATE BACKLOG OF IMMIGRATION-RELATED CASES
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) today introduced legislation that creates new judgeships for the U.S. District Courts to deal with the backlog of immigration-related cases.  
   "Because of the increased apprehensions along the border, the court system along the Southwest border is experiencing a tremendous backlog of immigration-related cases," said Kyl. "I am hopeful that this bill with provide the Judiciary with the resources necessary to sufficiently alleviate this burden on our federal court system." 
   The proposed legislation creates 11 new federal judgeships, as recommended by the Judicial Conference, in the U.S. District Courts in which at least 50 percent of their criminal cases are immigration cases. The bill affects all four states that border Mexico. 
   The District Court of Arizona had 4007 criminal filings, of which 2404 cases, or 59 percent, were immigration filings. In 2004, the Western District of Texas had 5599 criminal case filings, 3688 of those cases, over 65 percent, were immigration related. The Southern District of California has 2206 immigration filings, 64 percent of their 3400 total criminal filings. Lastly, the District of New Mexico had 2497 criminal filings, 60 percent of them, 1502 cases, were immigration cases. 
   Kyl also applauded the recent Justice Department announcement to provide additional resources to enhance the enforcement of immigration laws and border security along the Southwest border. The Justice Department - at the urging of Kyl during a July 18 Senate hearing with Attorney General Alberto Gonzales - will add 25 Assistant United States Attorneys to the five federal law enforcement districts along the border to prosecute immigration-related offenses. 
   Since 2000, there has been a 40 percent increase in the number of Justice Department immigration prosecutions - making immigration cases the largest category of cases filed by the United States Attorney's Offices. In 2005, over 95 percent of immigration prosecutions resulted in convictions. 
   "Along with the increased number of judges to handle immigration cases, I am pleased that the Justice Department has heeded my recommendation to adequately provide an increase in the number of U.S. attorneys to prosecute these cases," said Kyl. 
   The bill was introduced by Senator Pete Domenici (R-NM) and also co-sponsored by Senator John Cornyn (R-TX).
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 