SEN. KYL CALLS BORDER LEGISLATION GOOD EFFORT, BUT INCOMPLETE
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ), chairman of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Technology, and Homeland Security of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today delivered the following statement during the Senate Judiciary Committee markup of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006.
   "Thank you Mr. Chairman, in view of the last remarks we should all note our immigrant roots; my grandparents came here as immigrants. I think it's fair to say that our nation will remain a nation of immigrants, almost regardless of what we do in this legislation because of the number of legal immigrants that we welcome to our shores every year. And there will be no shortage of people who want to come here legally that's for sure. 
   "Mr. Chairman I want to commend you for this mark, it's not only a good faith effort but a good effort. Notwithstanding which I say I will have a lot of amendments to add elements to it and correct some things I disagree with, but I will not do that with pejorative language I assure you.
   "My state of Arizona is the most affected by illegal immigration. So I think I have some standing to talk about what's happening in real life. Over half of the illegal immigrants apprehended, are apprehended at the Arizona border with Mexico. And as a result of a hearing Senator Cornyn and I held yesterday touching on just one aspect of what happens, I can assure my colleagues that the effects of illegal immigration are huge and negative.
   "On the local communities there are incredible costs, not just in financial terms but even in environmental terms. It's not just a matter of people seeking to get work here, as has been portrayed by others. In the hearing yesterday, we heard testimony from U.S. Attorney Paul Charlton, sheriffs from Arizona and Texas, David Aguilar, head of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and others. Among the information provided, 108 percent increase over last year in the number of assaults. The violence at the border is increasing exponentially as we have more and more border patrol agents to contest the territories of the smugglers. It's getting very violent.
   "The criminals coming across are between 10 to 15 percent of the people being apprehended. And these are bad criminals; these are people accused of rape, homicide, and serious drug-dealing. And a lot of these people aren't from Mexico but from other countries, including countries of what we call special interest, with prospective terrorists.
   "So we have more violence, more criminality, and a huge impact where this illegal immigration occurs. And I might add that frequently the illegal immigrants themselves are the targets of this crime and violence.
   "So the point is, number one, we've got to get control of the border. I think this mark, Mr. Chairman, makes a good effort at that. It's a complement to our current efforts. Experts do say that it can be accomplished if they have adequate resources. We'll have some amendments to add these things.
   "The second point that the witnesses made was, that none of this is going to work if we don't have good work place enforcement policy. To ensure that from now on everybody who works here is eligible to work here. And that's necessary both for temporary workers, as well as to ensure that nobody else works here illegally. It's estimated that in my state, ten percent of the workers in the state are illegal immigrants.
   "The bill that Senator Cornyn and I introduced provides for enforcement at the border, and provides for enforcement in the interior, including in the work place. We start from the proposition there that you have got to have a good database. And all the experts will agree that the documents that are currently used are frequently counterfeited, fraudulent, and based on bad data. So we have got to start by cleaning up the database and then re-issue valid documents. And we'll have some amendments that will add some texture to the bill to do that.
   "We have to have a temporary worker program. But it's got to be easy for the employer to use. They shouldn't have to be the cops to try figure out if the documents are good or bad. Their determination of hiring should be based upon a federal document that has already made that determination.
   "Those here illegally now must be given an opportunity to work here legally. Under our bill, we allow them to remain in the United States for five years, before they have to return home. And they would be eligible to participate in temporary worker programs after that. They would even be eligible to apply for a green card, but they would have to get in line with everyone else who is seeking permanent residence in the United States. Otherwise, it would be very unfair to all of those immigrants that Senator Durbin was talking about who have patiently waited in line trying to come to the United States legally.
   "In summary Mr. Chairman, we need to protect U.S. sovereignty and get control of the violence and crime at the border. We have to treat everyone humanely. We have got to restore the rule of law, and we need a flexible temporary worker program that reflects the state of the economy. That means temporary. When you have time a high of employment like we do now, we issue more permits; when we go into a recession and a have a lot of unemployment, we issue fewer permits. And you can't adjust permits downward if you've automatically granted people a right to legal permanent residence.
   "Mr. Chairman, if we approach this with goodwill, a minimum of partisanship, constructively, no name calling, and the like, we might have a chance to get something done - it's going to be very, very hard. Your bill is incomplete, and yet it's this thick. Again I commend you; you can't possibly think of everything and take care of everything. But if we do it constructively, we have a chance to succeed here. And I don't think, given what I told you about what's happening in my state, that we have any choice but to succeed."
   Contact: Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705; Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-2206.
 
 