SEN. KYL TO PROBE FLIGHT SECURITY
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ), chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Homeland Security, Terrorism, and Technology, today announced he will hold a hearing to examine what actions the United States and foreign governments are taking to ensure that airline passengers are properly screened before boarding international flights to the United States.  
   "The recent London bomb plot is a reminder that our enemies are seeking new ways to engage in the mass murder of innocent people, including assembling bombs on aircraft bound for the United States," said Kyl. "Now is a good time to review what mechanisms we have in place to ensure that terrorists are intercepted before aircraft leave the ground, to determine how those mechanisms can be improved, and to examine vulnerabilities in the processing of international travelers. It is my hope that this hearing will bring to light what must be done to ensure terrorists are stopped long before they're on a plane." 
   The hearing will examine four components of security pre-screening at airports: 
   1. The Visa Waiver Program (VWP), which allows foreign nationals from 27 different countries (including Britain) to come to the United States each year without obtaining a visa; 
   2. Immigration Advisory Program (IAP), which allows DHS officers to examine the travel documents of foreign nationals to prevent security risks or fraudulent document- holders from boarding flights bound for the United States; 
   3. Advance Passenger Information System (APIS), which allows DHS to perform automated law enforcement and security queries of international air passengers before departure to the United States; 
   4. Passenger Name Record (PNR) data, which is contained in airline computers and provides DHS with information about inbound passengers that can be used to assess risk.
   The hearing, entitled "Keeping Terrorists Off the Plane: Strategies for Pre-Screening International Passengers Before Takeoff," is scheduled to be held at 2 p.m., September 7, 2006, in Room 216 of the Dirksen Senate Office Building. An advisory with a final witness list will be released later this week.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 