SAVING MONEY ON PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
  By Sen. Jon Kyl
   It took more than a decade of debate, but Medicare beneficiaries across the country are finally going to see some relief from the high cost of prescription drugs. Beginning on May 3, seniors and disabled Medicare beneficiaries will be able to enroll in a Medicare prescription-drug discount program, marking the first time Medicare will offer seniors federal help with their drug costs.  
   The first bit of advice is: Take time to consider the various drug discount card programs available to you. In Arizona, that will include the state's Copper RX Card. You may choose to participate in one program over another, or none at all. It's your choice. But remember, a discount card is not a substitute for other health insurance you may have. You should not drop your current coverage even if you get a discount card. 
   The cards are expected to offer savings up to 25 percent of the current price of most pharmaceuticals. Those with the lowest incomes will receive the most help. If you have an annual income of less than $12,569 (less than $16,862 for married couples), you might qualify for a $600 credit in addition to the savings offered by the drug card. In short, the new law will give people with Medicare the chance to begin saving immediately, with the most help available to the neediest seniors. 
   Once a Medicare beneficiary enrolls in a drug-card program, he or she can use the card beginning the first day of the next month. You start saving right away - at the pharmacy. And you may be able to reduce your costs even more by asking the pharmacist if generic drug alternatives are available. 
   How to choose the card that's right for you? In total, there will be more than 70 cards available on either a national or regional basis. That's a lot of shopping around to do. 
   The good news is, Medicare has committed to providing beneficiaries with personalized assistance to help them select the discount card that works best for them. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has more than tripled the number of customer service representatives to handle the expected caseload. Beneficiaries can call the 24-hour-a-day, seven-day-a-week hotline at 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-4227). Information will be available in English and Spanish, and by TDD for the hearing-impaired. 
   Additional assistance is available through the State Health Insurance Assistance Program, which is funded by CMS to assist Medicare beneficiaries in deciding whether they should get a discount card, and if so, which one. You can call the program at 800-432-4040, or in the Phoenix area at 602-542-4446. For those with Internet access, Medicare's website (www.medicare.gov) now includes price comparison tools and information about other benefits being offered under the new law. 
   To get started, make a list of the medicines that you take regularly, and gather your financial information to determine whether you might be eligible for the $600 credit. Medicare will help you compare prices, taking into account convenience, generic substitutes, and how frequently you take a given drug. 
   Some drug cards may require an enrollment fee of up to $30; others may charge no fee at all. There is no enrollment fee for low-income seniors who qualify for the $600 credit. 
   The discount-card program will last through the end of the year 2005, when the full, voluntary, Medicare Part D drug benefit becomes effective. 
   If you have questions or need assistance in selecting the drug card that is right for you, contact Medicare at 1-800-MEDICARE, or one of my Senate offices. In Phoenix, the number is 602-840-1891; in Tucson, 520-575-8633; and in Washington, 202-224-4521.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 