SEN. KYL REJECTS 'BUMPER STICKER' REBATE PROPOSALS
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) today outlined steps that Congress can immediately take to lower the cost of filling up your gas tank. Speaking on the Senate floor Tuesday, Kyl called on both parties to dispense with "bumper sticker proposals" and explore workable ways to bring gas prices down. 
   "For example, providing a $100 or $150 rebate check does not add one drop of oil to our supply-it's a gimmick," said Kyl. "Prices are up because demand outpaces supply, and providing a rebate will do nothing to increase supplies of gas or to bring down prices."
   Kyl suggested several steps that Congress could take immediately to reduce the pressures on gas prices. Among them, Kyl said that Congress should suspend boutique fuel-blending requirements, and reduce the ethanol additive mandate. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 mandated that refiners increase their use of ethanol in gasoline by 7.5 billion gallons a year by 2012, (in 2006 alone, consumers will be forced to consume four billion gallons nationwide), although ethanol production has not been able to meet this demand.
   To boost supplies of the ethanol additive for the future, Kyl suggested eliminating tariffs imposed on ethanol imports from countries like Brazil. He also emphasized the importance of lessening our dependence on foreign oil by increasing domestic exploration and production.
   "I support opening new sources of environmentally sound oil and gas exploration to increase our domestic supply of oil and gas," said Kyl. "Government geologists tell us that ANWR could hold up to 16 billion barrels of recoverable oil--that's 30 years of imports from Saudi Arabia. Had President Clinton not vetoed this idea a decade ago, our nation's oil supply today would be larger, and gas prices would be lower. In addition, we need to open more deep water drilling areas off our coast."
   "Until we're serious about the economics of the issue rather than simply trying to come up with bumper sticker solutions, we're never going to be able to relieve the cost on consumers, and that, after all, ought to be our primary responsibility."
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 