SEN. KYL DISCUSSES UPCOMING PETRAEUS/CROCKER TESTIMONY, TROOP FUNDING
  Senate Republican Whip Jon Kyl today fielded questions from reporters during a conference call to discuss the upcoming testimony of General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker. The following are excerpts from the call (audio of the entire call can be found at http://src.senate.gov/public/_files/radio/kyl4_7_08.mp3
   "An article by Fred Kagan...cites a recent study by the U.S. Institute of Peace...that 'it may be that February 13, 2008 will be remembered as the day Iraq's political climate began to catch up with its improved security situation,' or more to the point when Iraqi leaders discovered...the key to political compromise and reconciliation. And Kagan goes on to say, 'the government of Iraq has now met 12 out of the original 18 benchmarks set for it." 
   "I think the key is to make sure that our U.S. objectives are met and sometimes that requires the direct expenditure of funds by the United States. It is true that we have been pressuring the Iraqi government to spend more of the oil revenues that it has obtained on reconstruction..."
   "I'm not sure that the next election will result in that big of a change [in Iraq] for two reasons. First of all, I think that John McCain is going to win and I think that he has a very sensible policy toward maintaining the gains that we have made here and not blowing them off by [precipitous] withdrawal. And secondly, if he were not elected, the realities on the ground I think would make it difficult for the political promises [of] the two Democratic candidates to be fulfilled."
   "I suspect if there is a pause in the draw down [of troops] that the reason for it is to ensure that the gains that have been made there are not squandered by a withdrawal [of] forces prematurely. But I do expect the withdrawals to continue at a later date, probably by the end of the year."
   "I would hope that the progress, both in reconstruction and politically, will have continued [in Iraq] and that we will be able to maintain the lower levels of violence and continued routing of al-Qaeda. Now those are all hopes, and I think part of it depends upon some [congressional] actions that occur. We've got to reauthorize the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act for example. That provides us a way of understanding what terrorists are up to, and we are pretty blind right now as a result of that not being authorized. So I hope the House of Representatives can take that up quickly and get that to the President. It has now been two months and we have been very much stymied in our ability to collect intelligence; and I think that at the end of the day any kind of military actions really depends upon getting good intelligence, some of which we get through that mechanism."
   In response to a question asking whether Democrats intend to use the troop funding bill for unrelated spending projects... "Yes. I suspect that that's exactly what they will try to do and I really resent it, and I use that word purposefully. In a sense it is blackmail, using our troops and their requirements as a hostage to Democrats' desire to spend more money for projects. To say we will not approve funding for the troops unless you add money for things we want to spend it on, I think presents it in a very bad light."
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 