WE NEED SENSIBLE IMMIGRATION REFORM
  Last week the U.S. Senate set aside immigration reform legislation, hoping to return to the subject in a few weeks. Senate Democrats abused the rules by refusing to allow consideration of any amendments, and even Republicans who supported the legislation agreed it was wrong to vote on the bill until amendments could be dealt with.  
   I oppose the legislation, among other reasons, because it would provide an automatic pathway to citizenship for the illegal immigrants already here as well as all "temporary" workers allowed to come to the U.S. in the future. That is unwise, unfair, and unnecessary: unwise because jobs that exist today in an expanding economy will not necessarily be there in the next economic downturn; unfair to the millions of would-be legal immigrants waiting patiently in line (in their countries) to come here; and unnecessary because most come here illegally to work, earn money, and return to their home country--not because they want to become citizens. 
   We must make sure that the resources and will to enforce any new immigration reform exists. The first amendment I filed would have disallowed criminals or "absconders" from receiving the benefits of any new legislation--neither citizenship nor legal permanent residence should be allowed for those who have already been convicted of serious crimes or deliberately violated a removal order of an immigration judge; yet the Democratic Leader has steadfastly refused to allow a vote on the amendment. 
   Legislation I introduced last year would provide the resources to secure the border and enforce the law in the interior, as well as ensure only legal residents (and citizens) can be employed. Under my proposal, the temporary worker program would grant only temporarymillion over the next 10 years. 
   No one has suggested rounding up and deporting illegal immigrants. Nor has anyone in the Senate advocated prosecution of anyone who provides humanitarian assistance to immigrants. There are other myths abound. That's unfortunate, for we ought to have a civil and comprehensive discussion of this critically important issue. 
   I hope when the Senate completes other business, it can get back to immigration reform. The longer we wait to solve the problem the harder it will be to solve. But it's got to be done right; and if we are not absolutely serious about enforcing the new law, it would be better not to pass it. The next amnesty would attract many millions of illegal immigrants from all over the world. That would be unacceptable.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 