SEN. KYL BACKS STEM-CELL RESEARCH WHILE PROTECTING HUMAN LIFE
  The Senate today approved two bills that expand stem-cell research, but one does so without destroying human life. Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) voted for the bill that expands research within ethical limits.  
   S.30, the HOPE Act, was approved by the Senate 70 to 28 and directs the Department of Health and Human Services to seek out alternative sources of stem cells and to study the possibility of establishing an amniotic and placental stem-cell bank, similar to the bone marrow and cord blood stem-cell bank, while reaffirming a policy that prohibits research that destroys human life. 
   "We live in an age when medical miracles occur every day, many of which are the result of stem-cell research," said Kyl. "I favor the broadest possible effort to pursue promising medical technologies within appropriate ethical limits, and I believe the legislation authored by Senators Isakson and Coleman does exactly that. It builds on the research that is currently treating patients, and encourages the expansion of stem-cell research in a responsible way. 
   "By contrast, I voted against the alternative bill introduced by Senator Reid, because I believe that taxpayers should not have to subsidize the destruction of human life, especially when a number of state governments and large universities have already directed significant resources to embryonic stem-cell research. On lines beyond those already authorized for federally-funded research, there are billions of dollars available for embryonic stem-cell research on lines from newly destroyed embryos, and increases in federal funding and a change in the federal policy are not necessary." 
   S.5, Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007, was also approved by the Senate 63 to 34 and is similar to legislation vetoed by the President in 2006. The bill overturns a key element of current policy by allowing taxpayer dollars to be used to subsidize the extraction of stem cells from the destruction of human embryos. 
   Both bills will now be sent to the U.S. House of Representatives for consideration.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 