SEN. KYL NAMES NEW LEADERSHIP STAFF TEAM TO SENATE REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ), chairman-elect of the Senate Republican Conference, today announced the hiring of Ron Bonjean as the new Executive Director. Bonjean will lead the Conference staff and help develop Senate Republican message strategy. Kyl also announced that Stephen Duffield will join the Senate Republican Conference as Policy Director and Chief Counsel.  
   Bonjean currently acts as the Communications Director for Speaker of the House, J. Dennis Hastert (R-IL). He also served as Director of Public Affairs at the Department of Commerce. Prior to his administration experience, Bonjean served in both the Senate and House leadership as Press Secretary to former Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-MS), and as Communications Director to former House Republican Conference Chairman J.C. Watts (R-OK). 
   "I want to welcome my new leadership staff team to the Senate Republican Conference," Kyl said. "Ron's experience in the Senate, House, and the administration, and Steven's policy background, will help Senate Republicans move our message forward, and enacting common-sense policies to benefit the American people." 
   Bonjean, a 36 year-old Illinois native, earned a Bachelor's degree in Political Science from the University of Wisconsin-Madison and a Master's degree in Journalism & Public Affairs from American University. He has worked for several other Members of Congress, including Mike Castle (R-DE), Kay Granger (R-TX), Jim Longley (R-ME) and Jay Kim (R-CA). 
   "It is truly an honor to join Senator Kyl's team and work on behalf of the Senate Republican Conference," Bonjean stated. "I look forward to communicating the efforts of Senate Republicans to improve economic and national security for the American people." 
   Duffield joins the Conference after four years with the Senate Republican Policy Committee, most recently as Deputy Staff Director, where he supervised the development of policy papers for Kyl. He previously served as a policy analyst specializing in judiciary issues, focusing specifically on judicial nominations, legal reform, and anti-terror legislation. Prior to joining the policy committee, Duffield practiced constitutional law with a Washington law firm. Duffield earned his Bachelor's degree from Georgetown University and his law degree from the University of Chicago Law School. 
   Bonjean and Duffield begin their new duties at the beginning of the 110th Congress, on January 3, 2007.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 