SEN. KYL ANNOUNCES SENATE PASSAGE OF MAJOR ARIZONA WATER SETTLEMENTS BILL
  Sen. Jon Kyl applauded the Senate's approval, under unanimous consent, of legislation yesterday that would settle claims over Indian water rights and allow the U.S. and Arizona to settle repayments owed to the federal government for construction of the Central Arizona Project (CAP).  
   "We are close to completing 15 years of work by literally dozens of parties," said Kyl, who has helped lead the complex and painstaking process. 
   The settlement will bring long-sought certainty to cities and communities as they plan their growth and development, as well as provide a means for Indian tribes to actually use water rights that thus far exist only on paper. It is a major component of a long-term water plan for Arizona, and also resolves a long-running dispute between the state and the federal government over nearly $2 billion in repayments for construction of the Central Arizona Project." 
   The "Arizona Water Settlements Act" (S. 437), co-sponsored with Senator John McCain, is divided into four titles. The first resolves the repayment issue and the allocation of CAP water between state and federal interests and creates a funding mechanism for current and future Indian water settlements. The second resolves claims by the Gila River Indian Community, and the third amends the 1982 "Southern Arizona Water Rights Settlement Act," resolving claims by the Tohono O'odham Nation. The fourth title concerns separate issues involving the San Carlos Apache tribe. Companion legislation was introduced in the House by U.S. Rep. J.D. Hayworth (R-AZ) with bipartisan support from the Arizona delegation. 
   "The water users and providers of Arizona have waited a long time for this day. Virtually every major water user and provider in central Arizona has devoted itself to the passage of this bill," Kyl said. "Looking ahead, this bill could ultimately be nearly as important to Arizona's future as was the authorization of the Central Arizona Project itself."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 