SENATE COMMEMORATES FIVE YEAR MARK OF 9/11 ATTACKS
  The U.S. Senate today adopted a joint House-Senate resolution commemorating the fifth anniversary of the September 11 attacks. Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ), chairman of the Senate Republican Policy Committee, together with Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-Tenn.) and Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) drafted the resolution. 
   Kyl also organized a bi-partisan, bi-cameral gathering of congressional members this evening on the steps of the Capitol to pay tribute to the men, women, and children who perished on September 11.  
   "As I thought about how to commemorate the fifth anniversary of the attacks on America, I recalled that solemn and unifying moment when so many Members gathered on the Capitol steps to show our respect for the victims and commitment to the security of our nation," said Kyl. "The object was to replicate that moment in our country's history, and remind families that Congress is doing its part to bring these criminals to justice." 
   The following is the text from the resolution adopted today: 
   "Expressing the sense of the Senate and House of Representatives upon the five-year anniversary of the terrorist attacks against the United States on September 11, 2001. 
   "Whereas on September 11, 2001, terrorists hijacked four civilian aircraft; crashed two of them into the towers of the World Trade Center in New York City; and crashed the third into the Pentagon outside Washington, D.C.; 
   "Whereas the fourth hijacked plane, United Airlines Flight 93, crashed in Somerset County, Pennsylvania, near the town of Shanksville, after the passengers and crew of that flight struggled with the terrorist-hijackers to take back control of the plane, ultimately preventing the flight from reaching its likely destination in Washington, DC; 
   "Whereas the heroic actions of the rescue workers, volunteers, and state and local officials who responded to the attacks with courage, determination, and skill is to be commended; 
   "Whereas thousands of innocent Americans, and civilians from many other countries, were killed and injured as a result of these attacks; 
   "Whereas Congress declared, in the aftermath of the attacks, September 12, 2001 to be a National Day of Unity and Mourning; 
   "Whereas there has not been a terrorist attack on the United States homeland since the terrorist attacks five years ago; but al Qaeda has perpetrated terrorist attacks throughout the world against U.S. persons, facilities, and interests, as well as U.S. allies during that time; 
   "Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That Congress-- 
   (1) Commemorates the life of each individual who died as a result of the attacks of September 11, 2001; 
   (2) Extends its deepest condolences to the victims of these attacks, as well as to their families, friends, and loved ones; 
   (3) Once again condemns in the strongest possible terms the attacks, the terrorists who perpetrated them, and their sponsors; 
   (4) Commits to support the necessary steps to interdict and defeat terrorists who plot to do harm to the American people; 
   (5) Recommits itself and the nation to bringing to justice the perpetrators of the attacks, along with their sponsors; 
   (6) Honors and expresses its gratitude to members of its Armed Forces, law enforcement personnel, first responders, and others who have bravely and faithfully participated in the War on Terrorism since September 11, 2001; 
   (7) Declares September 11, 2006 to be a National Day of Remembrance, in commemoration of the terrorist attacks against the United States on September 11, 2001."
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 