GIVING A PLAN FOR SUCCESS A CHANCE
  The President's plan for success in Iraq should be given a chance. Although critics have focused almost exclusively on the reinforcement of troops - the so-called "surge" - the President's strategy is a comprehensive approach to the security and political problems facing Iraq. Under this plan, the Iraqi government has committed to lead the effort to defeat the militias and any other challenges to the government's monopoly on force. The new plan also relies on political and economic measures that will help to create a more unified government capable of providing essential services to its citizens.  
   Opponents do not agree that a political solution depends on peace and stability in Iraq. But, as General Petraeus made clear in his Senate testimony in January, Iraqis need to feel that the government is capable of providing for their security before they can give up their reliance on sectarian militias. 
   While American troops work with Iraqi units to establish security in Baghdad, and in the al Qaeda-dominated al Anbar province, the Iraqi government will be expected to act on promised reconciliation initiatives, including an oil-sharing compact, revision of the de-Baathification law, provisional elections, and to reform its cabinet to ensure the equal treatment and delivery of services to all of Iraq's communities. 
   The new plan is not guaranteed to work. But everyone agrees Iraq cannot yet handle security by itself. If the U.S. withdraws, Iraqis will be slaughtered, terrorists will be emboldened throughout the region, and Iran and Syria will step into the void. These severe consequences to our national security make it clear that withdrawal is not an option. 
   Although many have summarily criticized the new strategy, they have contributed no viable plan of their own. No one has any illusions about the challenges we face, but we will be more likely to succeed if we are unified. As Osama Bin Laden has said, "This war is for you or for us to win. If we win, it means your defeat and disgrace forever." 
   The Senate should also consider the message a nonbinding, no-confidence resolution would send to our enemies, our allies, and our troops. Such a resolution would tell General Petraeus, whom the Senate recently confirmed as U.S. commander in Iraq, that we don't support his mission. During an interview with an evening news broadcast, Tyler Johnson, a 21-year-old soldier serving in Iraq, appropriately summed up the message a no-confidence resolution would have on our forces: "Those people are dying. You know what I'm saying? You may support - Oh, we support the troops,' but you're not supporting what they do, what they share and sweat for, what they believe for, what we die for. It just don't make sense to me."
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 