SENS. KYL, FEINSTEIN CRIMINALIZE TUNNELING UNDER THE BORDER
  Sens. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) and Dianne Feinstein (R-CA) today successfully added a provision to H.R. 5441, the 2007 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, which would criminalize construction of a tunnel across an international border.  
   The provision specifically would prohibit and criminalize the construction or financing of an unauthorized tunnel or subterranean passage across an international border into the United States with a term of imprisonment up to 20 years. Additionally, any person who uses a tunnel or subterranean passage to smuggle aliens, weapons, drugs, terrorists, or illegal goods will be punished by doubling the sentence if convicted. 
   "These tunnels not only provide an avenue for people to illegally enter our country and smuggle narcotics into the United States, but it poses a very serious risk to our national security," said Kyl. "It gives terrorists, and those wishing to do harm to Americans, a way to subvert or border security efforts on the ground. The only thing more astonishing than the discovery of these border tunnels is the fact that they're not currently illegal." 
   "Cross-border tunnels pose an unmistakable threat to our nation's homeland security. The Senate today sent a clear message that we are fully prepared to punish those who would build, operate, and finance these tunnels," said Feinstein. "Closing this loophole in our laws will help stem the tide of criminals who would smuggle illegal aliens, weapons, drugs, terrorists, or other illegal goods into the United States through these tunnels. And those who would turn a blind eye should be forewarned that they too will be prosecuted under the full extent of the law." 
   Since 2001, over 40 border tunnels have been found along the southern border of the United States. At least 29 of the tunnels were found in Arizona. 
   The underlying bill, H.R. 5441 is scheduled for a vote late Thursday.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 