SEN. KYL CRITICIZES PACE OF IMMIGRATION SYSTEM REFORM, PERSONNEL TRAINING
  Sen. Jon Kyl today criticized the State Department for failing to meet improved review standards for visa applicants from countries known to be home to significant terrorist groups, and urged the Department of Homeland Security to improve personnel training and expand the use of biometric identification technology. "We have two prime opportunities to interdict terrorists seeking to enter the United States: when travelers are issued visas, and when they enter the country," Kyl said at a joint hearing of the Senate Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Immigration, Border Security & Citizenship and Subcommittee on Terrorism, Technology & Homeland Security. "Any visa, but particularly one for an applicant from a high-risk country, should only be granted if we can be reasonably certain that the person in question will simply visit and then go home. If we're still not even personally interviewing those with questionable applications, it certainly leaves a gaping hole in our first line of defense."  
   Kyl noted that 15 of the 19 hijackers on Sept. 11, 2001 were natives of Saudi Arabia who had entered the United States legally "using visas that never should have been granted and that were in blatant violation of the spirit and the letter of U.S. immigration law." He expressed exasperation that the State Department was still unable to provide, at the hearing, even an estimate of the number of personal interviews of visa applicants from countries such as Saudi Arabia, home of Wahabism, a particularly virulent and anti-American strain of Islam. 
   Kyl also expressed concern about the training of consular officers in screening foreign travelers, as well as the guidance that they receive from the State Department. Last year, he won passage of an amendment to intelligence reform legislation that was prompted by the 9/11 Commission's recommendation that most foreign nationals be personally interviewed by consular officers before they are issued visas.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 