BUSH SIGNS SENS. KYL, FEINSTEIN BILL RAISING PENALTIES FOR IDENTITY THEFT
  President George W. Bush today signed into law the Identity Theft Penalty Enhancement Act, legislation co-sponsored by sens. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) and Diane Feinstein (D-CA) designed to stiffen penalties for the crime of identity theft. 
   "Last year alone, nearly 10 million Americans had their identities stolen by criminals who rob them and the nation's businesses of nearly $50 billion through fraudulent transactions. The bill I'm about to sign sends a clear message that a person who violates another's financial privacy will be punished," President Bush said at the signing ceremony, as he thanked Kyl and Feinstein, among others for their work on the bill.
   Under current law, many identity thieves receive short terms of imprisonment or probation and, after their release, go on to use false identities to commit much more serious crimes. H.R. 1731, the Identity Theft Penalty Enhancement Act, increases penalties for those who steal identities to commit immigration violations, firearms offenses, and other serious crimes. The bill also amends current law to impose a higher maximum penalty for identity theft used to facilitate acts of terrorism.
   "There are few crimes short of actual violence that inspire greater dread than identity theft," Kyl said. "It's not just the hassle, or even the lost money. It's the profound sense of violation that comes with having someone else out there actively sullying your good name."
   Provisions of the legislation would help address the growing problem of insiders who use their employment position (such as workers at financial institutions) to commit fraud or help others commit fraud, allowing judges to apply additional penalties to these individuals under the sentencing guidelines.
   The bill requires two or more years in jail - beyond any term of imprisonment for the underlying offense - for individuals who knowingly transfer, possess, or use the means of identification of another person in order to commit a serious Federal predicate offense (including immigration violations, false citizenship crimes, firearms offenses, and other serious violations). Judges would be prohibited from sentencing a convicted defendant to probation or reducing the underlying term of imprisonment.
   The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) received 161,819 victim complaints of someone using another's information in 2002. Of these, 22 percent involved more than one type of identity crime. The FTC estimates the loss to businesses and financial institutions from identity theft to be $47.6 billion. The costs to individual consumers are about $5 billion.
   In October, Mohamed Amry, a former employee of a Bally's Health Club in Cambridge, Massachusetts, pleaded guilty to a multi-count indictment charging him with conspiracy to commit bank fraud, access-device fraud, and conspiracy to commit identity theft. Using a skimmer to obtain credit-card data from members of the health club, Amry provided stolen names, Social Security numbers, and credit-card information from at least 30 people to Abdelghani Meskini, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy in connection with the plot to blow up Los Angeles International Airport in 1999.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 