WOMEN'S HEALTH WEEK
  Mother's Day kicks off a very important week for health care, one that focuses specifically on the health issues that face American women. National Women's Health Week, coordinated by the US Department of Health and Human Services, is intended to encourage women to concentrate on taking the simple steps that will improve their overall health and enable them to live a longer and happier life. 
   Women are a source of strength in their families. Sometimes this means taking care of others - a spouse, children, parents - and selflessly considering their own health needs last. As part of Women's Health Week, I urge the women of Arizona to take the time to visit their doctor on National Women's Check-Up Day, which is Monday, May 15. Sometimes it's the deadliest diseases that go unnoticed until the damage has already been done.  
   The conventional wisdom is that breast cancer, a terrible disease, is the number one killer of women - but it is not. Heart disease - often described as a silent killer - is in fact the leading cause of death in American women. According to the American Heart Association in 2004, 15,418 women died of cardiovascular disease in Arizona alone, which includes all forms of heart disease, compared to 664 women who died of breast cancer. Women must not ignore the warning signs, and in consultation with their medical provider, understand the factors that place them at risk. 
   Along with understanding the diseases that women face, Women's Health Week is also intended to raise public awareness of women's health issues by encouraging women across the nation to become engaged in the policy discussions that affect women. Congressional and regulatory actions in Washington D.C. affect the health of women in very significant ways. It is important for women to be informed and participate in the decision-making process to ensure their voices are heard. 
   For example, thousands of women across the country have become engaged in the issue of hormone replacement therapy, and whether it is advisable to undergo it. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is currently reviewing its policies on hormone replacement therapy. Pharmacies and women across the country have become active by publicly sharing their stories on the need for alternative drug treatments, in the hopes the FDA will recognize the importance of this treatment. If you have questions of comments about this, please contact my office. 
   This week across the country women will be participating in races and walk-a-thons, forming support groups, participating in clinical trials and research, and bringing their experiences to the attention of Congressional leaders. These are all positive ways to get involved. 
   This week we also celebrate National Nurses Week, a chance to thank the nurses across the United States for the dedication and excellent healthcare they provide to others. Whether it is assisting patients in rehabilitation facilities, working with physicians in hospitals to respond to emergencies, or providing healthcare to students in schools, all nurses provide critical care in some form with compassion. My wife, Caryll, is a former nurse, so I know firsthand nurses' contributions our nation's health. I am grateful to the many people who honor the nursing profession with their service. 
   Unfortunately, a big threat to the healthcare profession is causing many to leave the field. Our healthcare professionals are continually threatened by the surging cost of liability insurance, causing many healthcare providers to close their practices, and deterring prospective providers from the profession. While negligent providers should be held accountable for their mistakes, we must also find ways to differentiate legitimate cases from the frivolous ones. The New England Journal of Medicine released a report recently, showing that about 40 percent of medical malpractice cases filed in the United States are groundless - yet these suits increases liability insurance for our medical professionals to struggle to provide quality health care services. The Senate last week attempted to address this issue; but, mostly on party line votes, Senators again denied a vote on this critically important issue. 
   There is always more to do to improve our health. Focusing on these issuing during these weeks reminds us of these challenges. Finally, I hope all Arizona mothers enjoyed their day on Sunday.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 