SEN. KYL DESIGNATES $2 BILLION FOR INTERIOR ENFORCEMENT INITIATIVES
  As part of his comprehensive approach to border security and immigration policy reforms, Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) today successfully added an amendment to the Concurrent Budget Resolution for 2007 that designates an additional $2 billion in funding for interior enforcement initiatives.  
   "The $2 billion in no way covers all the expenses that need to be covered, but represents a down payment on the work that needs to be done to prepare for comprehensive immigration reform" said Kyl. "Whatever Congress does this year, we're going to have to begin the process of adding the personal and tools necessary to enforce the laws." 
   The measure adopted designates $2 billion in immigration and homeland security-related funding for interior enforcement purposes. It would specifically fund a nationwide implementation of the Electronic Employment Verification System and a hardened work-authorization Social Security card, which is a major component of Kyl's comprehensive immigration reform proposal. Kyl's provision would also add an additional 3,000 worksite enforcement personnel (including enforcement, fraud detection, and all support personnel), that would monitor and penalize the hiring and employment of illegal immigrants. 
   "Any immigration bill that passes Congress this year will fail unless we have the interior enforcement mechanisms and personnel in place to enforce the laws," said Kyl. "Comprehensive immigration reform requires a commitment to interior enforcement policies that compliment the strengthening of our border security infrastructure." 
   The measure would also provide funding for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP), an initiative that reimburses states and localities for their costs associated with incarcerating criminal illegal aliens; increases the total number of federal detention bed spaces and personnel; and increases the number of Border Patrol agents to 3,000 provided in 2007. 
   "State and local jails and prisons, particularly in border states like Arizona, must bear the heavy cost of incarcerating criminal illegal aliens," said Kyl. "This burden is a federal responsibility, and I am pleased this funding will provide the much needed relief to state and local governments."
   Contact: Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705; Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-2206.
 
 