SEN. KYL, SENATE COLLEAGUES URGE HHS TO SPEED ILLEGAL ALIEN HEALTH CARE REIMBURSEMENT
  Sen. Jon Kyl joined Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) yesterday in sending a letter to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Mark McClellan urging rapid implementation of a hospital reimbursement program for emergency care to unauthorized aliens. Originally scheduled to start in September 2004, the system created to provide $250 million annually to local health care providers while lawmakers work to develop a long-term solution to alleviate the financial burdens of treating undocumented aliens.  
   Yesterday's letter was prompted by CMS's acknowledgement that it has not yet set a starting date for the program, which Kyl originally sponsored and was signed into law December 8, 2003, as part of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act. Meanwhile, local hospitals are mandated by federal law to provide this emergency care, absorbing all costs as the delay continues. 
   "It is unfair for our hospitals to bear a hugely disproportionate burden for mandated emergency health treatment for illegal aliens," Kyl said. "This affects everyone who needs emergency medical care, by reducing available services and threatening to drag down the quality of care to substandard levels for everyone. It's inevitable when you have too many sick people and not enough resources." 
   Two hospitals along the Cochise County border with Mexico have been forced to close skilled nursing facilities and OB units, Kyl added, noting that pregnant women there must now travel 75 miles to deliver a baby. The closure of a regional trauma center, according to Jim Dickson of the Copper Queen Community Hospital, means that "We've virtually lost the 'golden hour'," considered the key timeframe for saving the lives of those with critical injuries. 
   "A lot of other states don't feel that illegal immigration as a major problem because it's not perceived as their problem," Kyl said. "But the reality is that illegal immigration is a genuinely national issue, and resolving it requires a national commitment not just on health care but also border control, law enforcement and other resources." 
   A copy of the letter is available at http://kyl.senate.gov/letter.cfm.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 