PROTECTING CHILDREN
  Abuse and neglect of our children continue to shock and horrify our Nation. You have seen the stories of things being done to kids that are absolutely incomprehensible. As a grandfather myself, these stories sadden me greatly, and remind me of one of the reasons why I serve in Congress. No child should ever have to face a life of abuse, which is why it is paramount the Senate pass the "The Children's Safety Act." 
   States across the country have already begun to compile lists of child-sex offenders and parents that abuse or neglect their children. While this is a good step toward protecting children, there currently is no national database that contains a full list of offenders and abusive parents of each state.
   A bill I authored, the ChildHelp National Registry Act, is now included as a provision of the Children's Safety Act. The measure specifically instructs the Attorney General to create a national registry of persons who have been found to have abused or neglected a child. The information will be gathered from state databases of child abuse or neglect, and will be made available to other states solely for the purpose of protecting children from abuse and neglect.
   The purpose of collecting state child-abuse data into a national database is to allow each state to track the past history of those who are suspected of abusing children. When child-abusing parents come to the attention of authorities-when teachers begin to ask about bruises, for example, these parents often pack up and move to a different state. A national database would allow the state to which these parents move to know the parents' history. Such a database also would allow a state that is evaluating a prospective foster parent or adoptive parent to learn about past incidents of child abuse that the person has committed in other states. Currently, there is no national database that would allow a state adoption or foster-parent agency to learn about a person's history in other states.
   The Children's Safety Act also includes additional provisions that work to protect and children from sexual predators and abuse by revising sex offender registration and notification laws to protect the public; adopts a tiering system for classifying sex offenders based on seriousness of their sex crime, criminal history and risk of re-offending; requires Internet posting of sex offenders on state and national websites; adopts comprehensive civil commitment measures to protect against sexually dangerous predators; protects children from serious violent criminals; and adopts a flexible approach for States to comply with new requirements
   Passage of this bill would go a long way toward protecting our children. Safety of our children is our charge. I hope my Senate colleagues will put aside any partisan differences and pass this critically important bill in the next few weeks.
   For more information on ChildHelp, please visit www.childhelp.org
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 