SEN. KYL INTRODUCES BILL TO ?KILL THE DEATH TAX'
  Sen. Jon Kyl today introduced legislation that would permanently eliminate the federal tax on inheritances, which has been gradually phasing out under President Bush's temporary tax cuts of 2001 but will revert to its previously "confiscatory" rate of up to 60 percent in 2011 without Congressional action.  
   "The death tax is unfair, inefficient, economically unsound and, frankly, immoral. Even though most Americans are unlikely to be subjected to it, most agree that it is fundamentally unfair to allow the federal government to seize more than half of a person's assets when he or she dies," Kyl said. That's wrong. Part of the classic American dream is the ability to pass such assets on to one's children, in order that they might get a bit of a head start on life, keep the family business going, or simply enjoy a higher standard of living. The assets involved were already taxed when the income that acquired them was earned. According to a Gallup poll, 60 percent of Americans agree it is unfair for Washington to tax them again, particularly at such punitive levels." 
   Even setting aside such moral considerations, Kyl said, "Consider the impact of the death tax on the economy. Small, family-owned businesses, particularly farms and manufacturers, often earn relatively low profit margins but are considered "wealthy" by the IRS because they own expensive production machinery or other equipment. When the owner of such a company dies unexpectedly, the heirs are often forced to sell off the business to pay the death tax, costing jobs and health insurance and disrupting supply chains. It's such bad policy that economists Gary and Aldona Robbins estimate that repealing the death tax would actually increase gross domestic product, to such an extent that within ten years overall federal tax revenue would actually be higher than before. We should end this tax on virtue, work, savings, job creation and the American dream, and end it for good." 
   The bill is co-sponsored by Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL).
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 