FIFTY YEARS AFTER BROWN V. BOARD OF EDUCATION
  By Sen. Jon Kyl
   On May 17, Americans will commemorate one of the greatest milestones of the Civil Rights Movement, the Brown v. Board of Education decision, in which the US Supreme Court struck down states' school segregation statutes. But the tone of much of the commentary marking the occasion is far from celebratory. Fifty years after that landmark decision, there is concern across the political spectrum that the noble ends toward which it aimed have yet to be realized.  
   A commonly heard lament is that classrooms in America are only modestly more racially integrated than they were before Brown. A press release issued by the NAACP characterized Brown as a "relative success" but claimed America had witnessed a "resegregation of our school system." 
   At least as frequently heard are expressions of disappointment at the persistence of disparities in educational progress and success among America's racial groups. Writing in the American School Board Journal, Abigail Thernstrom, co-author of No Excuses, Closing the Racial Gap in Learning, observes unhappily, "The typical black or Hispanic student is graduating from high school with an eighth-grade education." 
   In short, there is a powerful sense, 50 years after the decision rejecting the "separate but equal" doctrine, that America's schoolchildren are still much more separate and unequal than we would like them to be. 
   How can we hope to do better in the next fifty years? Or, hopefully, sooner. 
   Americans will undoubtedly want to continue funding the schools that serve poor and minority students generously. While K-12 education has remained predominantly a state and local responsibility, the federal government has asserted a role in addressing disparities in resources and outcomes through the Title I program, which directs funds to school districts enrolling significant numbers of disadvantaged (i.e. poor and minority) students. 
   But even though the federal government has directed $187 billion to Title I since it was created, Secretary of Education Rod Paige has concluded that "we have virtually nothing to show for it" in terms of reduced disparities among students of different racial and socioeconomic backgrounds. After 50 years, I hope we can all agree that money without reform will not address the disparities that persist - and that we need to ask more of our education system. 
   The No Child Left Behind Act championed by President Bush is the most ambitious plan yet devised to spur improved performance in American schools by providing incentives for success - including more public funds - and real consequences for failure. 
   The law's signature innovation is its insistence that schools demonstrate academic progress for all students. Yet the Department of Education has been inundated with requests to loosen those requirements. To their credit, President Bush and Secretary Paige have made it clear that the practice of concealing persistent failure to educate minority youngsters - and what they have aptly described as the "soft bigotry of low expectations" can no longer be countenanced. 
   The success of this ambitious endeavor is far from assured. Indeed, given the limited success of so many previous reform efforts, the challenge President Bush and Secretary Paige have taken on is as bold, as difficult, and as important to our nation's future as the one the President and his foreign policy team have undertaken to foster progress and stability in the Middle East. While No Child Left Behind has proven controversial - particularly as the political season has heated up - if we hope to see more of Brown's promise realized, we must all work together to see that its objectives are fulfilled. 
   There is much wisdom in the President's formulation that "Education is the new civil right." Fifty years later, the challenge of vindicating that right is the test of whether America can keep the promise of true equal opportunity Brown vs. Board of Education galvanized Americans of goodwill to make in its wake.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705
 
 