SEN. KYL APPLAUDS NEW DNA DATABASE REGULATIONS
  U.S. Senate Republican Whip Jon Kyl (Ariz.) today welcomed new regulations released by the U.S. Department of Justice that will expand the federal DNA database by having federal agencies collect samples from persons arrested under federal authority and from illegal immigrants in federal detention. 
   "It's befitting that these proposed regulations are issued during a week that we take time to recognize the victims of crime," said Kyl. "The regulations will save lives, prevent crimes and bring justice for victims and their families. These reforms are long overdue - we should have been done this years ago when the technology first became available."
   Kyl noted that if these regulations had been enacted earlier, Arizona police would have been able to stop Santana Aceves, the so-called "Chandler rapist," earlier in his crime spree. Aceves was arrested in January of this year and linked by DNA to half a dozen sexual assaults of young girls that were committed in the Chandler area in 2006 and 2007. Aceves was present in the United States illegally and had been deported as recently as 2003. Had his DNA been collected and analyzed at that time, police would have identified him after the first rape that he committed in 2006, preventing at least three or four subsequent sexual assaults.
   Prior to these regulations, federal law enforcement agencies only collect samples from persons convicted of a federal offense, and do not collect samples from most illegal immigrants being removed from the United States.
   Kyl authored the portion of the 2005 law that gave the Justice Department the authority to develop regulations for collecting DNA samples from federal arrestees and immigration detainees and including them in the National DNA Index System, where samples can be compared with crime-scene evidence.
   According to U.S. officials, once the regulations are fully implemented, it's estimated that about 1.2 million new DNA samples could be added to the national database each year. Arrestees who are ultimately not convicted of a crime may "opt out" and have their DNA analysis removed from the database.
   Kyl responded to critics who worry that the new regulations may adversely affect individual privacy because DNA analysis can extract medically sensitive information. Kyl noted that "Most crime labs don't even have the equipment to extract medically sensitive information from DNA samples, and it would be a federal offense for any lab employee to misuse a DNA sample in this way."
   Following publication in the Federal Register, there will be a 30-day public comment period before the regulations are finalized.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 