SECURITY ON STRIKE
  The U.S. Senate recently approved legislation entitled "Improving America's Security," but like many bills in Washington, it fails to live up to its name.  
   The legislation is ostensibly dedicated to improving national security, but it omits key provisions that would help prevent terrorists and criminals from entering the United States, expedite the deportation of criminal aliens, and increase penalties for supporting terrorism. 
   The bill also allows employees of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) - the homeland security entity entrusted with securing our transportation systems from terrorism - to form unions with the ability to "collectively bargain" with the government. 
   What this means is that homeland security officials would be required to get approval from unions for every change in policy or personnel assignments, inhibiting their ability to respond flexibly to terrorist threats and other emergencies. 
   To protect transportation adequately, the TSA must have the ability to alter security procedures and deploy screeners to confront threats rapidly. 
   Consider the August 2006 United Kingdom air-bombing threat. Over the course of 12 hours, TSA officials took intelligence and information that was still developing and developed new security protocols. 
   At 4 a.m., when TSA workers first arrived for duty at airports on the East coast, they were briefed and trained on the new security procedures that were then implemented immediately. Remarkably, passengers in the U.S. and the U.K. saw two completely different scenarios. In the U.K., flights were cancelled and travel backups ensued for days, while in the United States, no cancellations occurred as a result of the change. 
   This type of situation highlights why vital national security functions should not be controlled by union politics. 
   The bill is also seriously flawed in a number of different areas. Republicans tried to address the bill's problems by offering a national security package designed to strengthen the legislation. Unfortunately, not only did Democrats demonstrate no interest in improving the bill, they refused even to allow a vote on the proposal. 
   The package of pending amendments that were offered - but not allowed consideration - would have made it a crime to recruit people to commit terrorist acts; authorized the immediate deportation of suspected terrorists whose visas are revoked on terrorism grounds; prevented the release of criminal aliens whose home countries delay their return to their home country; made it a crime to encourage terrorism by rewarding the families of suicide bombers after the bombings take place; and increased penalties for those who perpetuate terrorist hoaxes. 
   Because of the labor union provisions, the President intends to veto this bill, and rightfully so. Unfortunately, the problems with this legislation outweigh any of its benefits (such as the part of this bill that helps states improve their interoperability capabilities). So it is my hope that both Democrats and Republicans can come back to the table after the President's veto to work together to craft a bill that will enhance our nation's security.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 