LEGISLATIVE PRIORITIES
  Congress faces many challenges in the next session - among them are taxes, spending, and immigration. Taxes are an issue for two reasons. First, if we don't control spending, some argue we should raise taxes. Second, most of the important tax rates expire in 2010. If Congress does nothing, Americans will automatically face a huge tax increase.  
   In treating patients, doctors have a saying: do no harm. Congress should follow the same advice regarding the economy. It's doing well now; so whatever we do, we should not cause harm. 
   If current rates are allowed to expire, for example, a family of four making $65,000 (the midpoint family income) would see its tax bill increase over $2,000 (58 percent) in just one year; a single individual making $28,300 (the median national income) would experience a 42 percent increase in income taxes; married couples with average incomes would experience a 12 percent tax penalty just for being married; and seniors, for whom dividends and capital gains account for nearly a quarter of income, would experience an immediate 10 percent, and possibly 20 percent tax, on this income 
   Such increases not only would be catastrophic for many Americans and their families, but for the overall economic health of our nation. So Congress must not increase taxes. 
   Do we need more tax revenue to avoid increased deficits? The answer is no. Our deficit today is below the historic average, and the government is actually taking in record amounts of revenue, further reducing the deficit. For those still concerned that we have a deficit, spending restraint is the better answer. 
   With more tax revenue, Congress has been spending more money. But your elected officials have the responsibility to spend taxpayer dollars wisely and be accountable for the results. One way is to end the practice of "earmarking" - to force spending for specific projects not approved in the budget. Spending reform must be a top priority of the new Congress, starting with reform that ensures funding bills aren't loaded with wasteful pork projects. 
   Finally, we have the unfinished business of immigration reform. Recently, Congress has approved several billion dollars for border security - more border patrol agents, fencing, surveillance equipment, roads, vehicle barriers, increased detention spaces, etc. Much work remains to be done. There are still almost four times as many New York City cops as there are border patrol agents - so continued resources will be required. At the same time, we can begin addressing the other elements of comprehensive immigration reform, including a temporary worker program, dealing with those already here illegally, and instituting an effective employee-eligibility verification system. 
   There are many other important issues that face the 110th Congress, and I look forward to working with all of my colleagues - Democrats and Republicans - to find solutions acceptable to the American people.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 