A FRIENDLY MEDICARE REMINDER
  In a previous column, I discussed the recent implementation of the Medicare Prescription Part D program and the benefits it's yielded despite its shaky start. As the enrollment deadline approaches, I want to reiterate what the benefits of this program are, and strongly urge seniors who are not part of any other retirement plan that offers prescription drug coverage, to sign up before the May 15 deadline to avoid any delays in coverage or costly penalties.  
   The Medicare prescription drug program covers both brand-name and generic prescription drugs. Everyone with Medicare is eligible for this coverage, regardless of income and resources, health status, or current prescription expenses. This program provides greater peace of mind by protecting seniors from high drug expenses and even if current eligible beneficiaries don't use a lot of prescription drugs now, they should still consider joining and using the benefit in the future. 
   Arizona has one of the highest national percentages for prescription drug coverage-76 percent of Arizonan beneficiaries have coverage through their retirement plans, Medicare, and other coverage options. And they're seeing real savings. I've mentioned one of my staff members, Jane Grace, who the other day observed that her own mother had her drug bills reduced from $2400 to $826 a year (including premiums and co-payments) as a result of the Medicare prescription program. This is not an isolated story. On average, enrolled beneficiaries are saving $1,100 on their drug costs. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce recently released a study showing that 84 percent of seniors enrolled in the Medicare prescription drug program are satisfied with the program and a majority report they are seeing significant cost savings. And 77 percent say that they would recommend the prescription plan to others-I hope we continue urging those eligible to sign up before the deadline. 
   While I'm happy to report that, as of April 18, 30 million seniors have enrolled into the Medicare prescription plan-exceeding the Department of Health and Human Services' goal of enrolling 28 to 30 million seniors-there's still much to be done to enroll the remaining seniors who have not signed up. I urge seniors to review their options in consultation with their medical providers as soon as possible and sign up now for a program that offers a good balance between the premium paid and the amount of coverage they will receive. 
   Those who are eligible for the program but miss the May 15 deadline will face a penalty of one percent of the average monthly premium until they enroll, for the duration of their enrollment. I believe that is too severe and I plan to explore alternative ways to enforce the deadline. 
   Seniors who haven't already signed up should visit www.medicare.gov, or call 1-800-MEDICARE to talk with knowledgeable staff that can help guide beneficiaries through the sign-up process. Seniors can also contact my Phoenix (602-840-1891) and Tucson (520-575-8663) offices for additional assistance enrolling.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 