BUSH SIGNS SEN. KYL BILL TO PROTECT RIGHTS OF CRIME VICTIMS
  President George W. Bush today signed into law the Justice for All Act, which provides a major set of new guarantees of basic rights under federal law for victims of crime.  
   Provisions of the new law include the rights to be reasonably protected, notified, present, and heard at critical stages, and the rights to confer with the prosecutor, to restitution, to proceedings free from unreasonable delay, and to be treated with fairness and respect. Most significantly, Congress has provided that victims have standing to enforce these new rights, including the right to seek enforcement relief in the federal appeals courts if necessary. "This is the most comprehensive legislation ever passed to protect the rights of crime victims," said Senator Jon Kyl (R-AZ), who co-sponsored the bill along with Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein of California. "Victims will no longer be relegated to observer status in federal cases against their attackers. Now, they can be active participants in the pursuit of justice, as they should be. These provisions reflect the core principles of victim justice." 
   Thirty-three states, including Arizona, have passed victims' rights amendments by popular margins averaging 80 percent. H.R. 5107 extends similar protections to the victims of federal crimes and their families, and provides incentives to states to be more vigorous in enforcing their own laws. 
   The bill also included provisions to eliminate the substantial backlog of DNA samples collected from crime scenes and convicted offenders; improve and expand the DNA testing capacity of Federal, State, and local crime laboratories; increase research and development of new DNA testing technologies; develop new training programs regarding the collection and use of DNA evidence; provide post-conviction testing of DNA evidence to exonerate the innocent; and improve the performance of counsel in State capital cases. 
   Kyl's original crime victim bill was named in part after Nila Lynn of Phoenix, who was murdered at a homeowner's association meeting on April 19, 2000 by a man unhappy with the way the association had trimmed the bushes in his yard. Nila died on the floor in the arms of her husband, Duane, three months short of their 50th wedding anniversary. Duane wanted a sentence of life without parole, rather than deal with the continuing appeals of a capital case, but despite clear constitutional and statutory rights, he was not allowed to make such a recommendation. The killer received the death sentence.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206, Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 