SEN. KYL ANNOUNCES FOREST HEALTH FUNDING, REIMBURSEMENT PROGRAM FOR SABINO CANYON RESTORATION
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) today announced that Arizona will receive over $4 million for two forest health projects. Kyl also announced that the Forest Service will be reimbursed for costs associated with restoring the damage caused by devastating floods and landslides to Sabino Canyon.  
   Kyl, who has led the effort to secure the funding for these critical projects, was informed today by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and Federal Highway Commission that his request for these funds would be provided. 
   "Proactive management of our forests not only is the best tool in combating wildfires, it is critical to restoring forest health and improving habitat for diverse species," said Kyl. "I am pleased that Arizona will receive this critical funding to further research, develop, and administer restoration and thinning treatments to Arizona's forests." 
   The Forest Service approved $2.0 million for FY 2007 for the Ecological Restoration Institute in Flagstaff, which works to develop, translate, and transfer science to the Forest Service and other land managers to develop landscape scale forest restoration treatments. 
   The Forest Service also approved $2.3 million for FY 2007 for the Payson and Verde thinning projects. These forest thinning projects were identified as priority acres in the Rim Country Community Wildfire Protection Plan and will effectively reduce the risk of wildfire to 17 communities in Gila County. 
   In July 2006, Sabino Canyon, a recreation site northeast of Tucson, was severely damaged by record level rainfall and floods, which destroyed vegetation and wildlife habitat. The floods also rendered a road that cuts through the mountain impassable. Kyl, working with federal and local officials, succeeded in authorizing the reimbursement funds that will be needed for costs associated with helping to restore Sabino Canyon to the state it was prior to the floods. 
   "The damage caused by the catastrophic floods and landslides to Sabino Canyon severely damaged the landmark," said Kyl. "It is my hope that this reimbursement program will help restore the canyon so that visitors can travel through and once again visit the site."
   Contact: Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705; Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-2206.
 
 