SEN. KYL BLASTS SUPREME COURT 'KELO' DECISION AT JUDICIARY COMMITTEE HEARING
  Sen. Jon Kyl today sharply criticized a recent Supreme Court decision allowing cities and towns to take private property and transfer it to another private owner under the auspices of economic development for "the public good."  
   In Kelo v. City of New London, the court ruled in June that the city of New London, CT could condemn property in an established working-class neighborhood so that private developers could build condominiums, a luxury hotel, a health club and private offices that would generate significantly higher tax revenues. Agreeing with dissenting justice Sandra Day O'Connor, who called the decision "pretty scary" on Monday before a group of Arizona State University law students, Kyl said "there was nothing wrong with the condemned neighborhood in New London, and no pressing need for the use of eminent domain, like for a school or a highway. Instead, the court's majority in Kelo appears to believe that 'the public good' is just about anything that results in a higher tax base." 
   The Fifth Amendment forbids private property from being taken "for public use without just compensation," Kyl added at a hearing of the Senate Judiciary Committee, noting that "Every state constitution echoes those words, which were surely given great consideration by the Constitution's framers. They were meant to limit the power of government to confiscate private property. For two centuries, there's been a broad consensus that 'public use' meant only things like roads, parks and public buildings directly owned or primarily used by the general public. We need to pass legislation quickly to restore this interpretation of the Constitution." 
   Kyl is a cosponsor of the Protection of Homes, Small Businesses, and Private Property Act (S. 1313), legislation that would prohibit the use of federal dollars in eminent domain projects pursued for economic development alone, and urged its passage by Congress. 
   Hilary Shelton, director of the Washington bureau of the NAACP, cited a history of abuse in the exercise of eminent domain by developers targeting minority neighborhoods, either based on specific discrimination or because developers naturally look for lower income areas to redevelop, both of which break up organized community structures and tend to result in the displacement of minorities in disproportionate numbers. Justice O'Connor had struck a similar note in her opposition to the Kelo decision, writing that the fallout of the verdict "will not be random," and that the beneficiaries are likely to be those "with disproportionate influence and power in the political process, including large corporations and development firms" - usually at the expense of individuals of more modest means. 
   "The specter of condemnation hangs over all property," O'Connor wrote. "Nothing is to prevent the State from replacing any Motel 6 with a Ritz-Carlton, any home with a shopping mall, or any farm with a factory." 
   "I am certain that the types of involuntary, government-engineered development projects that this decision allows will be viewed by many as 'progress'," Kyl said. "But is it really progress for one, more politically influential private party to be able to use the government's power of eminent domain to take another, less politically connected individual's property? Is this constitutional as long as the government anticipates increased tax revenue? I do not think that this precedent represents an advance of either progress or freedom, and we need to fix it, quickly."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 