SEN. KYL CO-SPONSORS AMENDMENT TO ALLOW BOY SCOUTS USE OF PUBLIC FACILITIES
  Sen. Jon Kyl today co-sponsored an amendment to the FY2006 Defense Authorization bill to ensure that the federal government will continue to allow the Boy Scouts access to public facilities, forums, and programs that are open to a variety of other youth or community organizations.  
   The amendment was prompted by an ACLU lawsuit seeking to prevent the Defense Department from allowing the Boy Scout Jamboree to be held at Fort A.P. Hill in Virginia, where it has been held since 1981. The suit alleges that doing so would violate the principle of church/state separation. U.S. District Court Judge Blanche Manning recently issued an injunction granting the ACLU's request. 
   "Organizations like the Boy Scouts are a great way to train future young leaders," Kyl said. "Instead of regarding them as some sort of a threat, we should be encouraging their efforts." 
   Since the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in Boy Scouts of America (BSA) v. Dale, the Boy Scouts of America's ties with government at all levels have been the target of multiple lawsuits. State and local governments have excluded Boy Scouts from public facilities, forums, and programs that are open to a variety of other youth or community organizations - solely because of Boy Scouts' exercise of its constitutional rights. 
   "The Boy Scouts, like other non-profit youth groups, depend heavily on their ability to use public facilities and participate in public programs and forums," Kyl said. "This amendment addresses real and threatened exclusion without the need for costly litigation." 
   The amendment's provisions: clarify that federal agencies may welcome Scouts to hold meetings and go camping on federal property; allow Boy Scouts to use a remedy that already exists in the Housing and Urban Development Act to protect its rights to equal treatment that already exist under United States Constitution; and specifically terminate or reduce federal HUD funding to state or local government entities that deny Boy Scouts equal access to government facilities, forums, or programs.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 