SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING REVIEWS NEW TOOLS FOR FIGHTING TERRORISM
  Sen. Jon Kyl, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Terrorism, Technology and Homeland Security, held a hearing Tuesday to review legislation that would provide the Department of Justice with new tools to fight terrorism. 
   "If we can use subpoena powers for health care fraud, surely we can justify using them against terrorists," Kyl said. "And if drug dealers are subject to a presumption of pre-trial detention, surely terrorists should be as well." 
   The first bill, Judicially Enforceable Terrorism Subpoenas (JETS), which would significantly reduce procedural hurdles and delays in the subpoena process for terrorism investigations. Most executive departments already have some authority to issue subpoenas. Moreover, FBI already has authority to issue subpoenas to investigate crimes such as health-care fraud, drug smuggling, and child pornography. A bill introduced by Sen. Kyl, and companion legislation in the House, would authorize the Justice Department to subpoena documents and records "in any investigation of a Federal crime of terrorism." 
   A second bill would apply the same statutory presumption of pre-trial detention to those charged with serious terrorism-related crimes as currently applies to those accused of more traditional offenses, such as those involving drugs or violence. Such legislation would close "continuing gaps in the laws that our police and prosecutors use to protect our nation from terrorism," Kyl said. 
   The bill would also broaden the list of offenses that render a convicted terrorist eligible for lifetime supervision subsequent to his release from prison. Current law allows this for terrorist offenses only if they result in or create a foreseeable risk of death or serious injury. This limitation could prevent adequate supervision periods for those convicted of non-violent terrorist offenses, such as computer attacks that cause tens of billions of dollars in economic damage. It could also limit supervision for persons who provide the essential financial or other material support for terrorist acts, even if they do not themselves directly participate. 
   Hearing witness Michael A. Battle, United States Attorney for the Western District of New York, cited the example of the "Lackawanna Six" terrorist cell. Prosecutors were forced to spend three weeks, he said, and reveal before trial a good amount of the evidence they had amassed, simply to persuade the trial judge that the six men presented both a flight risk and a danger to the community - tying up unnecessary resources and valuable time.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 