SUPPORTING THE TROOPS, AND THEIR MISSION
  The phrase "support our troops" has been repeated so often that it's easy to lose sight of what it really means.
   There a lot to be said for yellow ribbons, bumper stickers and letters to the editor. They surely provide welcome reassurance of community esteem for soldiers overseas and their families. And the letters and care packages that troops receive from home - sometimes from complete strangers - must be a pleasant relief, however symbolic, from the stress of combat duty in places like Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   But perhaps the most powerful affirmation a soldier needs, when a mission sends them far from friends and family and into harm's way, is to believe in the mission itself. It is this factor that sets the war in Vietnam apart from other conflicts. We did not so much lose there as defeat ourselves in various ways, from poor political leadership to shamefully personal protests against individual soldiers coming home. Likewise, we will never be beaten militarily in Iraq. But we can easily defeat ourselves if we start second guessing the merit of our very objectives of liberating the victims of tyranny and playing offense in the war against terrorism.
   The freedom of speech, to air political differences, is of course one of the great blessings of being an American - one of the fundamental rights our soldiers have fought and died to defend for more than two centuries. I would not suggest that the conduct of the war against terrorism is not a subject for legitimate debate, or question the patriotism of those who disagree about strategy, tactics, funding or other policy matters.
   But it is another matter entirely to undercut the morale and effectiveness of our military by claiming that their mission is simply not worth doing. Thankfully, few public voices have done so directly. But an increasing number have made the strong insinuation, from Hollywood to the editorial pages of major newspapers.
   Those pundits and activist movie stars who advocate simply "getting out" of Iraq would benefit, as I did, from a conversation with 21-year-old Stephen Kohn of Phoenix. Having enlisted in the army just after graduating from high school, Stephen recently returned from 13 months in Iraq and knows firsthand the value of the work that continues there.
   In emails home, Stephen described the "the hell of this war," including the time he was out on patrol and an enemy mortar round missed his patrol and "hit a playground full of kids" instead.
   "I did a little thinking recently about this whole conflict," he wrote. "I read in the paper and on the internet and on TV the things people around the world and at home think about what is going on down here ... A lot of people take their freedom for granted, and it's not until you give up that freedom, so you can shed your blood so others can have it, that you truly understand its value. I am glad for this deployment because it has taught me to be a true American, not just citizen of the country."
   Stephen is hardly an isolated case. In early June I visited a number of soldiers at Walter Reed hospital who were recovering from wounds received in Iraq. Some had lost entire limbs, but to a man and woman, every single one expressed a strong desire to return to their unit.
   And like Stephen, they said that strong support from home had made all the difference. "As I am doing my part, you are also doing yours, and in a way you 'are' here with me," Stephen emailed his father.
   In some ways, the burden can fall heaviest upon soldiers' families. Private First Class Christopher Fernandez of Tucson recently received a Silver Star for heroically retrieving a machine gun from a bombed-out Humvee and using it to protect the evacuating victims of the explosion. But he may not get to come home for another year.
   "I try to be brave because he's so brave," his wife Maritza told the Arizona Daily Star, holding the couples' new baby. "But there's part of me that wishes he would run and hide when the shooting starts."
   That's understandable. But PFC Fernandez didn't run and hide when the going got tough. Like many brave American soldiers before him, he did quite the opposite. His country owes it to him, and his family, to follow that example and continue to support his mission.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 