SEN. KYL APPLAUDS COMMITTEE APPROVAL OF YUMA IMPROVEMENT ACT
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) applauded today's vote by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee to approve S. 1529, The City of Yuma Improvement Act. The bill, introduced by Sen. Kyl, authorizes the conveyance of seven orphan parcels of federal land that are currently held by the Bureau of Reclamation and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to the city of Yuma. 
   "I'm pleased that the Committee favorably reported the Yuma Improvement Act to the full Senate today," Kyl said. "The bill paves the way for the redevelopment of the riverfront in downtown Yuma, which I believe will prove to be an important step in the city's future." Under the bill, six parcels of federal land held by the Bureau of Reclamation would be exchanged for two railroad parcels owned by the city on which a Bureau of Reclamation rail line exists. It would also authorize the direct sale of one parcel of land held by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to the city for fair market value.
   The conveyances will enable the city to complete a riverfront redevelopment project that has been in the works since 2001. The project is designed to connect the city's Main Street with the Heritage Area and the Colorado River to enhance both the quality of life for Yuma's residents, as well as one of its primary economic assets - tourism.
   There is agreement among all parties to exchange and sell the land, but the two federal agencies lack the authority to complete the deal, and congressional authorization is required. Kyl's bill provides that authorization.
   The bill has received broad support in Yuma and among the state's congressional delegation. Senator John McCain is a co-sponsor of the Kyl bill, and Congressmen Trent Franks and Raul Grijalva together introduced similar legislation in the House of Representatives. The bill must now be considered by the entire Senate. Kyl says that he will encourage his colleagues work with him to pass the legislation this year.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 