SEN. KYL: IMMIGRATION BILL IS CRITICALLY FLAWED
  The U.S. Senate today approved S. 2611, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006. Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) issued the following statement: 
   "The nation needs legislation that will secure our borders and provide meaningful immigration reform - this bill completely misses that mark. The Senate has approved a bill that is critically flawed, and doesn't go far enough to secure our borders and strengthen the rule of law.
   "This bill, under its temporary worker program, would place illegal immigrants and all incoming aliens on a pathway to legal permanent residency and ultimately citizenship.
   "Temporary, must truly mean temporary, and participants in any temporary worker program should be required to return back to their country. Our responsibility as United States Senators is to the people we represent in the United States, and our obligation is to best serve their interests. This bill seems to put the interest of immigrants before American workers and those waiting patiently in line to legally immigrate here.
   "Despite my efforts, and others', to improve and strengthen this bill on the Senate floor, only a handful of our amendments were accepted. Senator Cornyn Wednesday evening introduced a measure that would've allowed the Department of Homeland Security to use information contained in aliens' applications to prevent fraud and enforce immigration laws. One would think that an amendment as common sense as information sharing among law enforcement would be adopted - yet the Senate rejected the amendment on a tie vote. This is just one of the many provisions of the bill that will now make it even harder, not easier, to solve our immigration problems.
   "A final provision the Senate adopted, despite my objections, was a requirement that before the United States construct any fencing along the border, we would have to consult with the Mexican government. Is this what the American people have in mind when they demand we secure the border? I can't believe it.
   "We need to solve this problem, and now is the time. Americans must know that this bill will not accomplish what it purports to do. I will be a part of the group of Senators chosen to work out a final agreement between the House and the Senate. I look forward to the opportunity to work to reach a final agreement that will ensure that immigration is addressed in a way that protects our security, meets our sense of fairness, and strengthens the rule of law.
   Kyl and Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) are the authors of S. 1438, the Comprehensive Enforcement and Immigration Reform Act of 2005, the only Senate proposal with a temporary worker program that does not place illegal immigrants on an automatic pathway to citizenship.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 