SENS. KYL, GRAHAM MEASURE PROVIDES $3 BILLION IN BORDER SECURITY IMPROVEMENTS
  The U.S. Senate today adopted a measure to the Department of Homeland Security funding bill that would provide over $3 billion for border security improvements, including funds to enhance the Employment Eligibility Verification Program (EEV) Basic Pilot program.  
   U.S. Senator Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) was a key architect of the measure, along with U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.). 
   "Because the immigration bill failed on the floor of the Senate, some states have begun to pass their own laws to enforce certain elements of immigration policy, including determining employment eligibility - Arizona is one of those states," said Kyl. 
   Arizona recently enacted a law that will require employers to participate in the EEV. The EEV is an online-based system operated by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services in partnership with the Social Security Administration to assist employers in determining employment eligibility of new hires and the validity of their Social Security numbers. The system is currently available to all employers to use voluntarily. 
   "It's unfortunate that states have had to fill the void of enforcing our immigration policies because the federal government has failed to adopt immigration reform legislation - especially dealing with employer verification. Consequently, the Department of Homeland Security will be increasingly called upon to provide information to states. 
   "To that end, one of the elements of the measure adopted would enhance the EEV by improving the reliability of the program and its response to state inquiries regarding the eligibility of new hires. Having failed to pass legislation, the federal government at a minimum should assist our state enforcement agencies and employers, by creating the most robust database possible that is easy to use and accessible." 
   In addition to providing funds to enhance EEV, the measure adopted today will specifically fund: 
   * A total of 23,000 Border Patrol agents hired, trained, and reporting for duty; 
   * Four Unmanned Aerial Vehicles and 105 ground-based radar and camera towers; 
   * Construction of 300 miles of vehicle barriers and 700 miles of border fencing; and 
   * 45,000 detention beds to end the "catch-and-release" policy permanently. 
  Kyl and Graham introduced a similar, broader measure Wednesday evening, which included additional law enforcement tools to secure the border and improve interior enforcement, but it was struck down by the Democratic majority.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 