AN AUGUST REPORT FROM THE SENATE
  By Sen. Jon Kyl
   Last month Congress took some time off for members to return home for a few weeks as well as attend their parties' conventions. By the time we return in September, campaign season will be in full swing and the political environment will make passing significant legislation difficult. 
   So now seems like a good time to provide a brief summary of some major accomplishments, as well as important tasks that remain unfinished.
   Most recently, President Bush signed into law a bill I co-sponsored with Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) to crack down on the crime of identity theft. Last year alone, nearly 10 million Americans had their identities stolen by criminals who rob them and the nation's businesses of nearly $50 billion through fraudulent transactions. Under current law, many identity thieves receive short terms of imprisonment or probation and, after their release, go on to use false identities to commit much more serious crimes. The Identity Theft Penalty Enhancement Act increases penalties for those who steal identities to commit immigration violations, firearms offenses, and other serious crimes. The bill also amends current law to impose a higher maximum penalty for identity theft used to facilitate acts of terrorism.
   There are few crimes short of actual violence that inspire greater dread than identity theft. It's not just the hassle, or even the lost money. It's the profound sense of violation that comes with having someone else out there actively sullying your good name.
   There are national security implications as well. In October, Mohamed Amry, a former employee of a Bally's Health Club in Cambridge, Massachusetts, pleaded guilty to a multi-count indictment charging him with conspiracy to commit bank fraud, access-device fraud, and conspiracy to commit identity theft. Using a skimmer to obtain credit-card data from members of the health club, Amry provided stolen names, Social Security numbers, and credit-card information from at least 30 people to Abdelghani Meskini, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy in connection with the plot to blow up Los Angeles International Airport in 1999.
   On other fronts, we managed to push a major bill on the rights of crime victims through the Senate, only to have it held up by an unrelated dispute in the House of Representatives. Fortunately, progress is being made on this front, and the crime victims rights bill may yet make it to President Bush's desk by the end of the year. Senator Charles Schumer (D-NY) and I also got a bill passed to close a loophole in the law that makes it difficult for law enforcement agencies to execute warrants against those involved in international terrorism but not affiliated with a known terrorist group.
   As for what remains to be done in the Senate, it's hard to know where to begin. Partisan obstructionism has held up progress on a long list of important issues, including:
   * The formulation of a sound national energy policy, to reduce our dependence on foreign oil;
   * Medical liability reform, to address the soaring insurance premiums facing doctors and driving many to move their practices to other states or stop practicing medicine altogether;
   * Reform of America's wildly dysfunctional class action litigation system, in which lawyers make millions in fees suing companies like Blockbuster Video, purportedly on behalf of clients who typically receive in settlement something along the lines of a coupon for a nominal discount on their "next purchase"; and
   * Numerous judicial nominations. President Bush has nominated 52 different individuals to the nation's circuit courts. If current trends continue, only 67 percent of President Bush's circuit nominees will have been confirmed. Of the 17 unconfirmed circuit nominees, 7 have been pending since 2001. Last week another nominee was filibustered, for a total of eight.
   That's just the tip of a large iceberg. But it's too early to rule out the possibility of progress altogether. Significant legislation has been passed in the heat of campaign season before. It will be an uphill climb, but perhaps we can do it again.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 