SEN. KYL'S STATEMENT ON JUDGE ROBERTS' NOMINATION APPLAUDS PHILOSOPHY OF JUDICIAL RESTRAINT
  Sen. Kyl today spoke on the Senate floor in support of the nomination of Judge John Roberts to be Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, calling Roberts an embodiment of the ideals outlined in the Constitution for federal judges: intelligence, character, experience, and commitment to the rule of law.  
   "It is when we begin to judge judicial nominees based on personal political ideology, how they will vote on particular cases or questions, or the nominees' willingness to engage in political bargaining with Senators in the confirmation process - that we, as Senators, undermine the impartiality and independence of our courts," Kyl said. "The rule of law is what lies at the foundation of the American system of ordered liberty. Judges owe their loyalty to the law, not to political parties or interest groups, and they must have the courage to make tough decisions, however unpopular. 
   "Of course, it is equally important to understand what judicial independence is not," Kyl added. "Judicial independence does not mean that the judge has the right to disregard the Constitution or the statutes passed by legislatures. Judicial independence does not mean that, because of a lifetime appointment, the judicial role is unconstrained by precedents and principle. Judicial independence is not an invitation to remake the Constitution or the laws if it does not lead to the result the judge prefers. Nor is judicial independence an invitation to the judge to legislate and resolve questions that properly belong in the democratic branches, no matter how wise a particular judge might be. 
   "Judicial independence gives judges tremendous freedom - but it is a freedom to do their duty to the law, not a freedom from or independence from the constraints of the law. When judges confuse the freedom to follow the law with a freedom to depart from it, we see the unhinged judicial activism that has infuriated so many Americans throughout my lifetime. 
   "During Judge Roberts's hearings, we saw efforts to demand political promises in exchange for confirmation support. Specifically, some Senators demanded to know how Judge Roberts will vote on issues that will come before the Supreme Court. In doing this, Senators risk turning the confirmation process into little more than a political bargaining session in which Senators refuse to consent to a fully qualified nominee unless the nominee promises, under oath, to vote a certain way on a future case. Yet during this confirmation process, some Senators said that they would not support Judge Roberts unless they knew 'where he stood' on important 'issues of the day.' And when the Judiciary Committee voted last week, more than one Senator explained that, while John Roberts was a brilliant man who would be a thoughtful Chief Justice, they would not support him because he they could not learn enough about his views on issues that they thought would come before the Supreme Court. 
   "The Senate must reject this improper politicization of our judiciary. A judicial nominations process that required nominees to make a series of specific commitments in order to navigate the maze of Senate confirmation would bring into disrepute the entire enterprise of an independent judiciary. If judges were forced to make promises to Senators in order to be confirmed, constitutional law would become a mere extension of politics. If we allow this radical notion to take hold, and if Senators can demand such promises, then what would become of litigants' expectations of impartiality and fairness in the courtroom? The genius of our system of justice is that people are willing to put their rights, their property, and even their lives before a judge to be dealt with as he or she sees fit. People do this because of the expectation that they will be treated fairly by a judge with no preconceived notion of how their case should be decided." 
   The full text of Kyl's statement is available here: http://kyl.senate.gov/legis_center/Roberts.pdf.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 