HEARING HELD ON SEN. KYL BILL ADDING LAND TO LAS CIENEGAS CONSERVATION AREA & SAGUARO NATIONAL PARK
  The Senate Subcommittee on National Parks of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources today held a hearing on S. 1341, the Las Cienegas Enhancement and Saguaro National Park Boundary Adjustment Act of 2007. The legislation, introduced earlier this year by U.S. Senator Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), adds nearly 2,400 acres to the Las Cienegas National Conservation Area and 160 acres to the Saguaro National Park, both located in southern Arizona. 
   "This legislation is the product of consensus-building between the Bureau of Land Management, the National Park Service, local officials, and community groups," said Kyl. "It is a balanced exchange that is fair and in the public interest. I urge my colleagues to work with me to approve this legislation at the earliest possible date."  
   The bill directs an exchange of a federally owned 1,280-acre parcel of land located south of Tucson near Corona de Tucson for two other land parcels. The outgoing parcel, referred to as the "Sahuarita property," is managed by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and consists of low-lying desert that has already been identified for disposal by the BLM through its land-use planning process. 
   The first parcel to be acquired consists of approximately 2,392 acres of land referred to as the "Empirita-Simonson property." This property lies north of the Las Cienegas National Conservation Area, managed by the BLM. The Empirita-Simonson property is located within the "Sonoita Valley Acquisition Planning District" established by Public Law 106-538, which designated the Las Cienegas National Conservation Area. The law directs the Department of the Interior to acquire lands from willing sellers within the planning district for inclusion within the conservation area. Its intent is to further protect lands with important resource values for which the national conservation area was designated. 
   The second parcel to be acquired, known as the Bloom Property, is approximately 160 acres located just south of the Sweetwater Trail in Saguaro Park West. It was identified for inclusion in the Saguaro National Park during a boundary study conducted by the National Park Service in 1993. In 1994, using the data from the study, Congress enacted legislation expanding the park and changed Saguaro's designation from monument to park. However, at that time, the Bloom Property did not have a willing seller, as it does now. 
   Kyl's bill accomplishes two other important objectives: addressing water withdrawals at Cienega Creek and providing road access to a popular recreation destination, the Whetstone Mountains, controlled by the Forest Service. 
   The land exchange is conditioned on Las Cienegas Conservation, LLC conveying a 98-acre well site to Pima County and relinquishing the water rights it controls. The net result is a water savings of 1,050 acre-feet per year. Concern exists about the future of Cienega Creek and the entire riparian area if these water withdrawals occur. 
   U.S. Senator John McCain (R-Ariz.) is a cosponsor of the legislation. A previously introduced version received broad support from conservationists and officials in the state. 
   Daniel Wenk, Deputy Director of the National Park Service, testified in support of the Kyl legislation at today's hearing. Copies of his testimony are available through Senator Kyl's press office. 
   Next, the committee must vote on the legislation before it can be considered by the whole Senate. Kyl today urged the committee to take it up at the earliest possible date.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 