BACK TO SCHOOL
  For millions of kids, summer vacation is over. It's back to school. And change is in the air. 
   Efforts are being made, for example, to help our nation's educators improve student achievement by supporting their professional development. I recently had the privilege of honoring one of Arizona's most talented teachers with the Department of Education's American Stars of Teaching award. 
   In its third year, the American Stars of Teaching program is a component of the Teacher-to-Teacher initiative, which seeks to honor excellence in the classroom. This year, Mr. Brian Fuller, of Peoria High School, was chosen to receive this award. Mr. Fuller exemplifies the kind of teachers Arizona schools must attract and retain. He incorporates some admirably high-minded subjects into his agriculture curriculum, and his success is apparent in the high achievement scores his students have posted on the AIMS test. He involves his students in all aspects - leadership, citizenship, teamwork, and pride. He has held several leadership positions within the field of agriculture and education, and received two separate nominations for this award - and this was only his fourth year teaching! It was my privilege to help honor Mr. Fuller's work.  
   We still have a long way to go in repairing our educational system, but schools in Arizona have seen encouraging signs of progress since the implementation of the No Child Left Behind program. That program is designed to ensure that every child, without exception, succeeds in school. And the federal government has invested heavily in NCLB. 
   In 2007, Arizona schools will receive $5.2 billion in federal grants. Since 2000, the Arizona educational system has seen a 161.4 percent increase in the amount of federal dollars it receives. 
   The U.S. Department of Education has already created two additional grants for students across the country. The Academic Competitiveness and National SMART Grant Funding encourage students to take rigorous coursework in high school and enter fields of study that are vital to our nation's competitiveness (mathematics, science, engineering and critical foreign languages). 
   Nationwide, it is estimated that approximately 500,000 students will receive Academic Competitiveness and SMART Grants during the 2006-07 academic year. And approximately 118,203 students in Arizona are eligible for these two new programs if they also meet specific program requirements by completing a rigorous high school curriculum, either through the AC Grant program or by majoring in math, science, engineering, or critical foreign languages in the SMART Grant program. 
   Arizona schools have seen improvements under the No Child Left Behind program. This year, up to 98 percent of students with sufficient credits will pass the AIMS test and graduate from high school. This means that almost every Arizona student who strove to graduate this year was actually able to don the cap and gown and receive a diploma. It also means that our state will benefit from a new generation of young adults with the self-respect and values that come with successfully graduating. Many of these students will go on to our state's outstanding universities and become Arizona's next generation of leaders. 
   Things have also improved at the primary and elementary levels. In 2000, astonishingly few fourth graders - only 16 percent - got a "proficient" score in math. By 2005, this number had almost doubled to 28 percent. Similarly, in 2000, only 20 percent of Arizona's eighth graders qualified as proficient in math. By 2005, this number had gradually climbed to 26. These numbers are still nowhere near respectable, but the direction they're going in is encouraging. 
   Arizona had at least a 10 point gain in both reading and math for Latino students over the past three years. Arizona, which had no statewide reading initiative before the advent of Reading First, a provision of NCLB, has made elements of scientifically based reading instruction available across the state. The 2004-05 school year marked the first implementation of a state board policy requiring schools that serve K-3 students to use a reliable and valid reading assessment system to screen and monitor progress. 
   These trends, while they certainly get us across the finish line, at least show that the accountability measures incorporated into No Child Left Behind are beginning to help Arizona's children.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 