SEN. KYL ANNOUNCES FISCAL- 08 FUNDING REQUESTS
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) today announced the fiscal year 2008 funding requests that he has filed with the Senate Appropriations Committee. Kyl's action is in keeping with the spirit of the Legislative Transparency and Accountability Act of 2007, which he voted for on January 18, 2007, and which passed by an overwhelming, bipartisan vote of 96 to 2. That measure, which is still awaiting final action, calls for increased transparency and disclosure of funding requests made by Members of Congress.
   Senator Kyl receives hundreds of appropriations requests every year and must carefully evaluate them all before recommending any to the Appropriations Committee. To determine which projects to recommend, he considers whether projects are authorized by law; whether they further a legitimate federal purpose; whether they are supported by state, local, or tribal governments (or, in the case of defense-related projects, by the Defense Department and/or base commanders); and whether funding is available from alternative sources on a competitive basis. He also considers whether the Appropriations Committee traditionally allocates the entire balance of certain accounts (for example, certain highway and transit accounts) to specified projects; if so, he will consider a request, since absent a recommendation, the Committee will not allocate funding to Arizona from those accounts. 
   "I cannot support every request for funding every year and still be a responsible steward of taxpayer dollars," said Kyl. "I must set priorities, recognizing that the federal government must live within its means, just as families must do day in and day out. That may also mean, in instances when communities submit similar requests, deferring some of the project requests to another fiscal year."
   Congress generally allocates funding according to a two-step process that ensures a thorough vetting: first, approving legislation that authorizes spending and sets the terms for its use; and second, approving appropriations bills that actually fund the authorized projects or programs. When one of these steps is short circuited, the likelihood increases that wasteful or unnecessary spending will occur.
   Arizona has suffered from devastating wildfires in recent years as a result of drought, insect infestation, and management policies that emphasized fire suppression over healthy management of forest resources. To help restore forest health and mitigate the danger of forest fires, Senator Kyl has requested funds for:
   ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION INSTITUTE AT NORTHERN ARIZONA UNIVERSITY, FLAGSTAFF, ARIZONA, $3.5 MILLION
   The Ecological Restoration Institute at Northern Arizona University works with federal, state, and private land managers to develop, apply, and monitor science-based hazardous fuels reduction treatments and restore the health of western forests. Funding would be provided for the Institute's work plan, which is designed to develop the information and tools required to restore frequent-fire forests and restore economic and social vitality to forest communities.
   Authorization: P.L. 108-317, the Southwest Forest Health and Wildfire Prevention Act, which was coauthored by Senator Kyl. Requested by Northern Arizona University on behalf of the Ecological Restoration Institute, which is the recognized leader on forest-health treatment design and implementation.
   MOUNT GRAHAM, CORONADO NATIONAL FOREST, ARIZONA, FOR HAZARDOUS FUELS REDUCTION, $1 MILLION
   The Mount Graham Sky Island Demonstration Program is designed to address hazardous fuels conditions on 1,949 acres of the mountain's interface as well as selected areas outside the interface that are critical to wildlife, including the endangered red squirrel, and watershed health. The project is specifically designed to address the unnatural build-up of forest fuels and tree mortality caused by drought and beetle infestation on the mountain.
   Authorization: P.L. 108-148, the Healthy Forests Restoration Act, authorized funding for hazardous fuels reduction projects. Requested by Graham County and the Environmental Economic Communities Organization.
   PAYSON RANGER DISTRICT OF THE TONTO NATIONAL FOREST, ARIZONA, FOR HAZARDOUS FUELS REDUCTION, $2 MILLION
   Funding would be used to reduce hazardous fuels and mitigate the risk of forest fires in the Tonto National Forest and to communities in Gila County.
   Authorization: P.L. 108-148, the Healthy Forests Restoration Act, authorized funding for
  hazardous fuels reduction projects. Requested by Gila County.
   To help protect Arizona's natural resources, Senator Kyl has requested funds for:
   BUENOS AIRES NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE NEAR ARIVACA, ARIZONA, FOR LAND ACQUISITION, $1 MILLION
   The land acquisition would further the conservation mission of the refuge. It would also help meet the needs of the Border Patrol as it fights illegal-immigration traffic that has caused portions of the refuge to be closed to visitors indefinitely.
   Authorization: 16 U.S.C. 460L-4 through 460L.-11; 78 Stat. 897, the Land and Water
  Conservation Fund Act. The project was developed through discussions with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and the U.S. Border Patrol in light of testimony in 2006 by the USFWS before the Interior appropriations subcommittee.
   SAN PEDRO PARTNERSHIP MONITORING AND REPORTING PROJECT FOR THE SAN PEDRO RIVER AND SIERRA VISTA SUBWATERSHED, U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, $750,000
   The Department of the Interior, in consultation with the Agriculture and Defense Departments and the San Pedro Partnership, is working to restore and maintain the sustainable yield of the regional aquifer by 2011. Integral to meeting this requirement is the USGS monitoring data that will be obtained from this project for the San Pedro River and the regional aquifer.
   Authorization: P.L. 108-136, Section 321. Requested by the Upper San Pedro Partnership, Ft. Huachuca, various environmental organizations, the City of Sierra Vista, and Cochise County.
   YUMA CROSSING NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA IN YUMA, ARIZONA, FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, $800,000
   The first heritage area to be designated west of the Mississippi River, the Yuma Crossing Heritage Area has become a model for other heritage areas and was recently named one of the top 10 heritage areas in the country. The conservation and interpretive programming in the heritage area's management plan, especially wetlands restoration, has been vital to the ecosystem of the Colorado River.
   Authorization: P.L. 106-319. Requested by the City of Yuma.
   The existing formula for allocating federal wastewater infrastructure funds under the Clean Water Act is outdated and fails to account for population trends and needs today. As a result, the formula fails to allocate federal dollars fairly. Arizona is the fastest growing state in the nation, but it ranks dead last among the states in terms of the allocation of federal dollars for clean water needs. Senator Kyl is working to change that formula, but in the meantime has requested funding to ensure that Arizona receives a fairer share.
   Senator Kyl has requested funds according to the need to achieve compliance with federal Clean Water Act mandates, community involvement, and the state's water quality priorities for:
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT, BULLHEAD CITY, ARIZONA, FOR EXPANSION AND IMPROVEMENTS, $2 MILLION
   Nitrate levels have exceeded federal Clean Water Act standards, causing the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality to issue a compliance order requiring Bullhead City to retire septic tank systems and construct a sewer collection system and wastewater treatment plant. Bullhead City has contributed over $150 million to comply with the order and upgrade its wastewater system.
   Federal funding will assist in expanding the wastewater treatment plant from two million gallons per day to four million gallons per day and provide treatment basins, influent headworks, and disposal ponds. 
   Authorization: The project will help achieve compliance with federal Clean Water Act mandates; State and Tribal Assistance Grant program. Requested by Bullhead City, which is under a court order to make the updates to its wastewater system.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT, LAKE HAVASU CITY, ARIZONA, FOR EXPANSION AND IMPROVEMENTS, $2 MILLION
   Lake Havasu City is beginning the fifth year of an 11-year wastewater system expansion program designed to mediate water pollution problems caused by one of the largest concentrations of septic systems in the country. The project would fund the sewer collection system component of the overall wastewater system expansion program. In 2001, Lake Havasu City approved a $463 million bond initiative to help pay for the project.
   Authorization: The project will help achieve compliance with federal Clean Water Act mandates; State and Tribal Assistance Grant program. Requested by Lake Havasu City.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT, NOGALES, ARIZONA, FOR REPAIR/REPLACEMENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL OUTFALL INTERCEPTOR, $20 MILLION
   The treatment of wastewater at the Nogales International Treatment Plant is a U.S.-Mexico treaty obligation. The existing International Outfall Interceptor, which carries raw sewage collected in Nogales, suffers from a number of problems (including raw sewage leakage) brought about by both operational issues and deterioration. If the line fails, at least 10 million gallons per day of raw sewage would enter the Nogales Wash and Santa Cruz River.
   Authorization: The project will help achieve compliance with federal Clean Water Act mandates; State and Tribal Assistance Grant program. Requested by the City of Nogales. The project is also a treaty obligation and is on the state of Arizona's priority list.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT, SAFFORD, ARIZONA, FOR IMPROVEMENTS, $1 MILLION
   Funding is requested for debt repayment for Safford's wastewater treatment plant construction in consideration of the City's foregoing some of its water rights to the Gila River Indian Community pursuant to the Arizona Water Settlements Act.
   Authorization: The project will help achieve compliance with federal Clean Water Act mandates; State and Tribal Assistance Grant program. Requested by the City of Safford. The project is also in consideration of the City's participation in the Arizona Water Settlements Act, P.L. 108-451.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT, SEDONA, ARIZONA, FOR IMPROVEMENTS, $2 MILLION
   The City of Sedona must upgrade three major wastewater pump stations and develop a method to dispose of one to two million gallons per day of treated wastewater in order to assure reliable operation of the stations and to ensure the future viability of effluent disposal. Since its incorporation in 1988, Sedona has spent over $50 million to develop a community-wide sewer system.
   Authorization: The project will help achieve compliance with federal Clean Water Act mandates; State and Tribal Assistance Grant program. Requested by the City of Sedona.
   To help protect Arizona communities from flooding, secure their water supply, and conserve precious water resources, Senator Kyl has requested funding for the following projects, which were requested by government entities in Arizona:
   NOGALES WASH FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT, $5 MILLION
   The Nogales Wash Flood Control Project provides critical flood control in the Nogales area and has two features: a flood-warning system in the United States and Mexico; and channel and levee construction at Chula Vista, Arizona.
   Authorization: Section 101(a)(4) of P.L. 101-640, the Water Resources Development Act
  (WRDA) of 1990, and modified by Section 303 of P.L. 104-303, WRDA of 1996, and Section 302 of P.L. 106-541, WRDA of 2000. Requested by Santa Cruz County. (Senator Kyl also requested an increased authorization for the project from $20.86 million to $24.539 million in order to reflect increased construction costs.)
   PIMA MARICOPA IRRIGATION PROJECT, $26 MILLION
   Funding will be used for the construction of the Pima-Maricopa Irrigation Project, which is designed to deliver Central Arizona Project water to the Gila River Indian Reservation.
  Authorization: Section 107 of P.L. 108-451, the Arizona Water Settlements Act. See also the report to accompany the Arizona Water Settlements Act, Senate Report 108-360, page 154.
   Requested by the Gila River Indian Community. The President's FY2008 budget also requested $13.973 million for the project.
   RIO DE FLAG FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT, FLAGSTAFF, ARIZONA, $8 MILLION
   Funding will help provide flood control protection for Flagstaff. A large flood could displace half of Flagstaff's more than 60,000 residents, and destroy approximately 1,500 structures valued at more than $400 million, including at Northern Arizona University.
   Authorization: Section 101(b)(3) of P.L. 106-541. Requested by the City of Flagstaff. (Senator Kyl also requested an increased authorization for the project from $27 million to $57.13 million in order to reflect increased construction costs.)
   SAN CARLOS IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DISTRICT, $2 MILLION
   Under the Gila River Settlement Agreement, the San Carlos Irrigation and Drainage District is responsible for the design and construction of various project facilities, including the rehabilitation of the non-Indian portion of the San Carlos Irrigation Project. The water conserved as a result of the projects will be used for various water settlement purposes, including maintaining a permanent San Carlos Reservoir fish and wildlife pool and providing a source of water for a possible future water settlement with the San Carlos Apache Tribe. The requested funding will be used for environmental compliance and preconstruction design work for these projects as required by the Arizona Water Settlements Act.
   Authorization: Sections 203 and 214(a) of P.L. 108-451, the Arizona Water Settlements Act. Requested by the San Carlos Irrigation and Drainage District.
   TRES RIOS FLOOD CONTROL AND RESTORATION PROJECT, $20 MILLION
   Funding will allow the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to continue construction of the flood protection features of the Tres Rios Flood Control and Restoration Project, which will provide vital protection for the 91st Avenue Wastewater Treatment Plant. The plant is vulnerable to changing flood conditions on the Salt River and flooding during a 100-year flood. Funding will also allow work to begin on the constructed wetland portion of the project.
   Authorization: Section 101(b)(4) of P.L. 106-541, the Water Resources Development Act of 2000. Requested by the City of Phoenix.
   TUCSON DRAINAGE AREA (TUCSON ARROYO), $20 MILLION
   Funding for the final phase of the Tucson Drainage Area project will allow the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to finish flood control detention improvements vital for the protection of the Tucson urban core, including neighborhoods along the Tucson Arroyo and Arroyo Chico Wash and the downtown district.
   Authorization: Section 101(a)(5) of P.L. 106-53, Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 1999. Requested by Pima County. (Senator Kyl also requested an increased authorization for the project from $29.9 million to $66.7 million in order to reflect increased construction costs.)
   YUMA DESALTING PLANT, REPORT LANGUAGE
   Senator Kyl requested report language directing the Bureau of Reclamation, within the funds provided to the Colorado River Basin Salinity Control Project, Title I, to dedicate sufficient funds to the Yuma Desalting Plant so that it is one-third operational by the end of calendar year 2007, and to provide Congress with a report no later than March 1, 2008 on the plant's operational status.
   The Bureau's failure to run the desalter has resulted in losses of approximately 100,000 acre-feet of water per year from storage in Colorado River reservoirs.
   Authorization: Title I of the Colorado River Basin Salinity Control Act, P.L. 93-320. Requested by the Central Arizona Water Conservation District.
   YUMA EAST WETLANDS RESTORATION PROJECT, $1.5 MILLION
   The project would restore 1,400 acres of barren river bottom along a five-mile stretch of the Colorado River. Design and permitting for the entire project are complete, and pilot revegetation projects are already underway.
   Authorization: P.L. 106-319, the Yuma East Wetlands Restoration Project is one of the programs in the general plan of the Yuma Crossing. Requested by the City of Yuma.
   Senator Kyl requested funding for important law enforcement programs, including the protection of crime victims' rights and emergency homeland security preparation:
   CRIME VICTIMS FUND, PRESERVATION OF FUNDING
   Senator Kyl urged the Appropriations Committee to preserve funding in the Crime Victims Fund for use as authorized by the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA), P.L. 98-473. Since its enactment more than 20 years ago, VOCA has been the principal means by which the federal government has supported essential services for crime victims. Today, more than 4,400 agencies nationwide rely upon VOCA grants to provide critical services to nearly four million victims of crime annually.
   The President's budget request proposed to rescind an estimated $1.338 billion from the Fund, jeopardizing the ability of VOCA programs to continue serving victims of crime.
   Authorization: P.L. 98-473. Senator Kyl and a bipartisan group of 22 other Senators urged the Appropriations Committee to preserve funding for the program. Senator Kyl has been a long-time supporter of rights for crime victims and believes the proposed rescission would be contrary to the spirit and intent of VOCA.
   NATIONAL CRIME VICTIM LAW INSTITUTE, TO CONTINUE AND EXPAND CRIME VICTIMS' LEGAL SERVICES, $8 MILLION
   Funding is requested for the administration and operation of the National Crime Victim Law Institute and for its clinic organizations that provide legal counsel and support services for victims of crime. These clinics have proven to be a valuable tool in the enforcement of victims' rights as set forth in the Crime Victims' Rights Act.
   Authorization: P.L. 108-405, the Scott Campbell, Stephanie Roper, Wendy Preston, Louarna Gillis, and Nila Lynn Crime Victims' Rights Act. Requested by Senator Kyl to implement that Act, which he cosponsored with Senator Feinstein.
   NAVAJO NATION, FOR DETENTION FACILITIES, $6.5 MILLION
   The Navajo Nation is in need of additional detention space. Funding is requested for the
  procurement and construction of a new detention facility in Tuba City, Arizona, and for the lease of temporary detention space from local counties.
   Authorization: Section 20109, Subtitle A of Title II of the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, as amended, 42 U.S.C. Section 13701 et seq. Requested by the Navajo Nation.
   PHOENIX/MESA INTEROPERABLE SHARED COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK, FOR CONSTRUCTION, $3 MILLION
   Five communications towers must be built around the Phoenix metropolitan area to address homeland security needs. These towers, which will provide interoperability between 700/800 MHz and 800 MHz communications systems, will enable emergency services personnel from the metropolitan area and surrounding communities to communicate directly with each other during a crisis.
   Authorization: 42 U.S.C. 3796dd. Requested by the City of Phoenix Police Department.
   SAN CARLOS APACHE TRIBE, FOR METHAMPHETAMINE ENFORCEMENT AND CLEANUP, $500,000
   The San Carlos Tribal Police Department is launching an initiative focused on combating addictions, trafficking, gang violence, and violent crimes associated with the use of
  methamphetamine.
   Authorization: 42 U.S.C. 3796dd. Requested by the San Carlos Apache Tribe.
   YUMA REGIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM, FOR THE COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION, $1.2 MILLION
   The completion of the Yuma Regional Communications System will enable interoperable
  communications during an emergency with the City of San Diego and the Imperial Valley Regional Communications System, as well as communications among Yuma-area public safety agencies and the Marine Corps Air Station in Yuma, the U.S. Army's Yuma Proving Grounds, U.S. Customs and Border Patrol, and local units of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
   Authorization: 42 U.S.C. 3796dd. Requested by the City of Yuma.
   Arizona is a donor state under the existing formula for allocating federal highway funds and receives only 91.5 cents back for every dollar in gas taxes it sends to Washington, D.C. Senator Kyl helped improve that return from the 86 cents on the dollar Arizona received before 1998, and he continues to work to improve the formula.
   Compounding the problem of Arizona being a donor state, funds from several federal transportation accounts are not distributed to the states according to any formula at all. If requests are not made for specific projects, Arizona will not receive funding from those accounts. To ensure that Arizona does not fall even further behind as a result of that practice, Senator Kyl has requested funds for the following projects that would be funded from such accounts:
   ARTERIAL CROSSING, CITY OF SURPRISE, FOR DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION, $1.1 MILLION
   Funding will be used to design and construct a new six-lane arterial above-grade crossing in place of the existing at-grade crossing of the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe Railway and U.S. 60/Grand Avenue for Jomax Road.
   See the section introduction above for account information. Requested by the City of Surprise.
   HOUGHTON ROAD CORRIDOR BRIDGE, TUCSON, ARIZONA, FOR REPLACEMENT, $5 MILLION
   Funding will support design and construction of a replacement bridge that can accommodate four lanes of traffic and the addition of pedestrian and bicycle facilities along the Houghton Road Corridor over the existing Union Pacific railroad tracks. The existing bridge is a narrow two-lane structure that is old and has suffered fatigue damage.
  See the section introduction above for account information. Requested by the City of Tucson.
   I-10 WIDENING IN WESTERN MARICOPA COUNTY, $5 MILLION
   The immediate widening of this segment of federal highway is critical due to the serious public safety hazards and alarming rise in accidents and fatalities. This portion of I-10 is also a major commerce road of regional significance. See the section introduction above for account information. Requested by the Cities of Avondale, Goodyear, and Litchfield Park.
   MESA MAIN STREET BUS RAPID TRANSIT, $2.2 MILLION
   Funding will be used to purchase clean-fueled buses to operate a new route connecting the end-ofline light rail station at Main and Sycamore Streets, extending to Power Road.
  See the section introduction above for account information. Requested by the City of Mesa.
   Sky Harbor International Airport Taxiway/Ramp Airfield Improvements, $10 million
  This phased conversion of taxiways/ramps at Sky Harbor will complement the recently completed upgrade of runways to concrete.
   See the section introduction above for account information. Requested by Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport.
   TILLMAN-O'CALLAGHAN BRIDGE (HOOVER DAM BYPASS BRIDGE), CONSTRUCTION, $12.5 MILLION
   The new Tillman-O'Callaghan Bridge will divert traffic from its current route across the top of Hoover Dam, resolving significant safety and national security concerns. It is a federal project to be built on federal land. The improved route will facilitate interstate commerce in the southwestern United States.
   See the section introduction above for account information. Requested by the Arizona Department of Transportation.
   TUCSON ALTERNATE FUEL BUSES AND BUS FACILITY, $3.744 MILLION
   Funding will be used to replace diesel-fueled buses with cleaner, alternative fueled buses, and to construct a new bus storage and maintenance facility. See the section introduction above for account information. Requested by the City of Tucson.
   TUCSON RAILROAD SAFETY AND ACCESS INITIATIVE, $8 MILLION
   Access in downtown Tucson is hindered by the existence of a major rail corridor that parallels Interstate 10. The daily traffic flow is more than 130,000 vehicles. The Arizona Department of Transportation has programmed $120 million over the next five years for the widening of I-10, but the lack of improvements at the railroad grade separation at Speedway Boulevard limits the effectiveness of this widening. Safety at interstate interchanges could be compromised due to narrow railroad underpasses and intersecting streets. The Railroad Safety and Access Initiative will enhance safety at railroad crossings, facilitate I-10 construction, and improve capacity and safety in downtown Tucson.
   See the section introduction above for account information. Requested by the City of Tucson.
   WILLIAMS GATEWAY AIRPORT, FOR TAXIWAY IMPROVEMENTS, $2.383 MILLION
   Williams Gateway forecasts significant growth in air carrier and general aviation operations in the near term, requiring safety and capacity improvements, including development of a parallel taxiway system to move aircraft from ramp areas to the runways.
   See the section introduction above for account information. Requested by the City of Mesa.
   Senator Kyl requested funding for non-profit entities that serve community health needs:
  St. Joseph's Hospital, Phoenix, Arizona, for the MOMobile, $500,000 Funding would allow St. Joseph's Hospital, a not-for-profit hospital that supports health care programs and services for poor and underserved communities, to purchase and equip a new, stateof- the-art Maternity Outreach Mobile (MOMobile) Clinic. Every week, the MOMobile travels to Mesa, South Phoenix, and Goodyear, providing comprehensive prenatal care to low-income women in medically underserved communities. The MOMobile has provided more than 20,000 outpatient visits for pregnant women who are uninsured or below the poverty level.
   Authorization: Eligible for funding through the Health Resources and Services Administration at the Department of Health and Human Services. Requested by St. Joseph's Hospital.
   TRANSLATIONAL GENOMICS RESEARCH INSTITUTE, PHOENIX, ARIZONA, $1.5 MILLION
   Funding would be provided to the Translational Genomics Research Institute (T-Gen), a non-profit organization dedicated to advancing genomics-based research and improving the diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of human diseases, for laboratory equipment and build-out of laboratory shell space.
   Authorization: Eligible for funding through the Health Resources and Services Administration at the Department of Health and Human Services. Requested by T-Gen.
   Senator Kyl requested funding for the following defense programs, which reflect his strategic priorities or are in support of requests from military base commanders or Defense Department representatives.
   Text omitted (It can be viewed at http://kyl.senate.gov/media_center/062807%20FY08%20Funding%20Requests1.pdf)
   Contact: Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705; Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-2206.
 
 