SEN. KYL NAMED 'TAXPAYER'S HERO'; RECEIVES HIGHEST SCORE FOR FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY
  Sen. Kyl has received top rating in the United States Senate from the nation's No. 1 taxpayer watchdog organization for his voting record against wasteful government spending.  
   Kyl received a 94 percent score for 2004, the highest of all 100 U.S. senators, and was named a "Taxpayer Hero" by the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CAGW). His lifetime rating is 92 percent for 11 years service to date in the U.S. Senate and eight years previously in the U.S. House of Representatives. He has received the watchdog group's top score in the Senate each year since 1997. 
   "I am grateful for the recognition by Citizens Against Government Waste of my efforts to ease the cumbersome tax and regulatory burden imposed by a bloated federal government," Kyl said. "It is noteworthy that the average score for Republican senators was 63 percent against wasteful spending, while the average score for Democrats was just 16 percent. Arizona's Senate team is working together on the side of fiscal responsibility." 
   Kyl added that he is now focused on finding and pressing for spending reductions in the federal budget to help offset the cost of rebuilding from the hurricanes on the Gulf Coast. "As an example of the opportunities for offsets that are out there, the House of Representatives has already identified 98 programs that can simply be terminated. Obviously that's a good place for us to look for guidance," he said. "Major spending legislation like the highway bill could also probably be pared significantly." 
   The CAGW ratings were based upon 16 key votes in the Senate, which ranged from reducing the cost of the highway bill by $62 billion to maintaining the moratorium on Internet taxation. Kyl missed getting a 100 percent rating because he voted for the final conference report on the Fiscal Year 2004 Omnibus Appropriations Bill, which included funding of military troops and homeland security. 
   Senior U.S. Sen. John McCain also scored well, with an 88 percent rating and has a lifetime CCAGW average score of 87 percent.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 