SENS. KYL, MCCAIN INTRODUCE WATER STUDY LEGISLATION AIDING SOUTHERN ARIZONA
  U.S. Senators Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) and John McCain (R-Ariz.) late Wednesday introduced The Sierra Vista Subwatershed Feasibility Study Act (S. 1929), a bill authorizing the Secretary of the Interior to study ways to add to the water supply in the Sierra Vista Sub-watershed, which is home to Fort Huachuca, the San Pedro Riparian National Conservation Area (SPRNCA), and nearly 76,000 residents.  
   "The feasibility study authorized under this bill is the next step in the process of determining how to best address the water challenges facing the Sierra Vista Sub-watershed," said Kyl. 
   The bill authorizes the Secretary to conduct a feasibility study of the alternatives recommended in a U.S. Bureau of Reclamation appraisal level report released this year. The bill authorizes $1,260,000 to pay for the federal government's share of the study's cost. The bill requires the non-federal cost share to be at least 55 percent. 
   SPRNCA, which protects nearly 43 miles of the San Pedro River, serves as a principal passage for the migration of approximately four million birds. It also provides crucial habitat for 100 species of birds, 81 species of mammals, 43 species of reptiles and amphibians, and two threatened species of native fish. The Nature Conservancy has called the area one of the "last great places on earth." 
   Fort Huachuca, which is adjacent to SPRNCA, plays a critical role in this country's national security by, among other things, training soldiers in military intelligence. It also is the largest employer in the area, contributing greatly to the economy of Cochise County and the State of Arizona. 
   "In recent years, the Fort has done an exemplary job of implementing water conservation and recharge measures as part of its compliance with the Endangered Species Act," said Kyl. "Nevertheless, water levels in certain areas of the regional aquifer in the Sierra Vista Sub-watershed are still declining due to natural causes and development in the area." 
   Because SPRNCA and the Fort could be negatively affected by these declining water levels, the Bureau of Reclamation report concluded that augmenting the local water supply is necessary. To that end, it recommended several augmentation alternatives for further study, all of which are supported by the Upper San Pedro Partnership, a congressionally recognized consortium of 21 local, state, and federal agencies and private organizations. 
   The bill now goes to the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee for consideration.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 