SENS. KYL, MCCAIN INTRODUCE WALNUT CANYON STUDY ACT
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) joined Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) Thursday to introduce the Walnut Canyon Study Act of 2007, a bill designed to evaluate lands surrounding the Walnut Canyon National Monument in Coconino County. This study will help develop a long-term management plan that conserves current natural, cultural, and recreational resources.  
   "This legislation is the product of extensive public input from state and local officials, federal agencies, and local citizens who use the land surrounding the monument," said Kyl. "This public participation highlights the core of the debate - how can we best protect the natural and cultural resources in the area while continuing the multiple-use management in a way that has stability and permanence. I hope that this independent study will help answer that important question. I urge my colleagues to approve the bill at the earliest possible date." 
   The bill directs the Secretaries of Agriculture and the Interior, utilizing a third-party consultant, to conduct jointly a study of approximately 31,000 acres surrounding the Walnut Canyon National Monument near Flagstaff. The study will help land managers ascertain the best long-term management strategy for these lands in order to protect their natural, cultural, and recreational values. Kyl emphasizes that adding these acres to the monument is not the end goal of this study. 
   Approximately 25,000 acres within the study area is managed by the Forest Service through the Land Resource Management Plan for the Coconino National Forest. The plan was amended in early 2003 with local input to close the area to motorized access and remove the land encircling the monument from consideration for sale or exchange. The plan, as amended, is under revision. The remaining acres are comprised of state trust land managed by the State Lands Department and the Walnut Canyon National Monument itself, which is managed by the National Park Service. A small number of acres, approximately 200, are private land. The bill does nothing to affect the rights of private property owners. 
   Senators Kyl and McCain cosponsored similar legislation in the 109th Congress. That bill received a favorable hearing in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, but unfortunately, the full Senate failed to consider it before the end of the session.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 