TALKING DOWN THE ECONOMY: RISKY RHETORIC
  By Sen. Jon Kyl
   Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry and many others on his side of the aisle have been working hard to convince American voters that the solid economic recovery we've been enjoying for nearly a year now is an illusion - even to the point of rather preposterous comparisons with the Great Depression. 
   I suppose it's their job to attack President Bush, but this kind of message is more than just garden-variety campaign spin. For one thing, it's utterly wrong (more on this later). More important, it runs the risk of actually undermining the economy and Americans' confidence in its recovery, creating a self-fulfilling prophecy that could potentially push us right back down into recession.
   In 1976, economist Arthur Okun, who had served as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers for President Lyndon Johnson, developed a "misery index" to measure Americans' dissatisfaction with the economy during the campaign of then-presidential candidate Jimmy Carter. The index is a combination of the inflation and unemployment rates, and although simplistic, it provides a rough indication of Americans' economic welfare by measuring both the availability of jobs and the purchasing power of the income generated by those jobs.
   Today's misery index of 7.5 is roughly the same as it was in 2000, when President Bill Clinton left office at the end of the fabled economic boom of the 1990s. In the intervening four years the United States has suffered through a major recession, which had already begun when President Bush took office, as well as the terrorist attacks of September 11, two wars, a painful revaluation of the stock market and a crisis of corporate confidence following the bankruptcies of Enron, Worldcom and other large firms.
   Thus, the rough equivalency in the misery index masks important improvements in the national economy as well as key factors that affect most Americans on a day-to-day basis.
   Real gross domestic product (GDP), the best overall indicator of how the economy is growing, has increased for the past 10 consecutive quarters. More than three-quarters of a million jobs have been created over the past eight months alone, and household wealth is at an all-time high of $44.41 trillion.
   How do all these macroeconomic numbers, and President Bush's policies, affect you? Consider just a few examples:
   * After-tax median income (excluding capital gains and losses) has increased by 3.6 percent since 2000. This measure provides an accurate picture of middle-class families' disposable income because, among other reasons, it takes tax relief into account.
   * Since President Bush took office, federal aid for post-secondary expenses has increased at a faster rate than tuition levels.
   * After adjusting for inflation, a middle-class family pays less per mile for gasoline to power the average automobile now (7 cents) than it did in 1972 (9 cents), the "golden age" of pre-embargo, cheap gasoline.
   A recent USA Today editorial took Kerry to task for his "gloomy notes about the economy," noting that his campaign's selective focus on rising costs in some areas ignores stable and even falling prices for other important items, from cars to computers to clothing. It also pointed out that "most measures of economic health, while below the levels of the booming 1990s, have been heading upward.
   "What's more," the editorial said, "Kerry has not offered answers for all of the problems he cites."
   Of course, it's campaign season, and spirited public debate is one of the great hallmarks of American democracy. But surely Democratic candidates can find ways to differentiate themselves from President Bush that don't involve attempting to talk down the nation's economic recovery. Do they really want to win that argument?
   Contact: Matthew Latimer, or Andrew Wilder, 202/224-4521.
 
 