SEN. KYL'S AIDE TO REPRESENT ARIZONA AS NATIONAL CHERRY BLOSSOM PRINCESS
  Sen. Jon Kyl today announced that Sarah Donovan of Paradise Valley, who serves on his staff as legislative correspondent for finance and education issues, has been selected by the State Society of Arizona to represent the state as its 2005 Cherry Blossom Princess.  
   Every year, each of the fifty states selects one woman to serve as its princess and represent the state during the National Cherry Blossom Festival in Washington D.C. This year the festival began on April 3 and ends on April 8. The festival, which coincides with the blooming of the trees, began in 1935 and is a celebration of the gift of 3,000 cherry trees to Washington from Tokyo in 1912. 
   Donovan graduated from Phoenix Country Day School in 2000 and Swarthmore College in 2004 with a B.A. in Political Science and a minor in Latin American Studies. She volunteers for the American Red Cross of the National Capital Area, plays volleyball on a USA Volleyball women's team, and enjoys tennis and softball. 
   "The best part of the program is meeting amazing people - both visitors from Arizona who are in Washington to see the Cherry Blossoms, as well as leading women in Washington such as First Lady Laura Bush and Senator Lisa Murkowski, a former participant in the Princess program. I especially appreciate meeting the other young women participants who are strong and intelligent and driven to be the future leaders in Washington themselves." 
   The National Cherry Blossom Queen for this year will be chosen at the end of the festival and will be rewarded with a two-week cultural tour of Japan. 
   "Almost a century after the great gift of these beautiful trees, visitors to Washington are still awed by the beauty of their blooming," Kyl said. "We remain grateful for the trees themselves and the bilateral friendship they represent. And we're very proud to have Sarah representing Arizona in the festival."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 