REPORT FROM FRONT LINES OF THE WAR ON TERROR
  I spent Thanksgiving with our troops in Baghdad, and it brought a special meaning to the day. I was there as part of a trip to Southwestern Asia. For the troops, it was no day off - just a quick meal before returning to dangerous duty.  
   To each of the young men and women I met in Iraq, in Afghanistan, and at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center near Ramstein, Germany, I conveyed the thanks of the American people for their sacrifice. You would be immensely proud of every one of them. 
   On Sunday, I visited soldiers and Marines at the medical center who had been seriously wounded a few days earlier, mostly in Fallujah. They were brave, matter-of-fact, and positive in attitude. The body and vehicle armor that U.S. troops use today (both made by Simula, Inc. in Tempe), have driven mortality rates down. So has the improvement in battlefield evacuation: within 24 hours of injury even the most difficult cases can be treated. 
   Our military and intelligence people are doing an incredible job in Iraq. The battle of Fallujah - the most intense urban combat for U.S. troops in over a generation - has been a real turning point. We have defeated the insurgents in every encounter and massively disrupted their operations. Yet my brief time there convinced me that Iraq's pacification is not just around the corner. We'll need patience and perseverance, because the enemy's hit-and-run tactics aim not for military victory but for demoralization of the Iraqi people over the long term. 
   Iraqis were so repressed by Saddam Hussein and his thugs, for so long a time, that they are conditioned to fear a return to power by his supporters (mostly minority Sunnis who want to again dominate the Shiite and Kurdish majority). Daily, these insurgents, joined by radical Islamist terrorists both Iraqi and foreign, physically attack or threaten individual Iraqis and their families. Until there are adequate police forces to protect the populace against this intimidation, it will continue to sap support from the government and delay the pacification of the country. Fortunately, the training of Iraqi police and special military units is now proceeding well, as we observed during our visit to Jordan. While in Iraq, we were assured by President Allawi that elections scheduled for the end of January will occur despite the terrorists' attempts to delay or stop them. 
   Everyone seems in agreement that Afghanistan's recently held presidential election was an unqualified success. President Karzai (a uniquely gifted leader) told us the huge turnout was a vote of defiance and appreciation - defying the terrorist Taliban and Al Qaeda remnants, and thanking America for liberating their country. Braving threats of violence and traveling long distances, Afghans voted by the millions, approaching 100 percent some areas. While the challenge of rebuilding a country devastated by decades of war and misrule are immense, both Afghans and our troops there are very hopeful about the future of the country. 
   It is one thing to receive intelligence briefings in Washington about the horror that has been perpetrated by the likes of Saddam Hussein and Osama bin Laden; it is quite another to see firsthand the visible scars of the absolute evil they represent: torture, intimidation, death, and the physical destruction of people and property. One comes away from the area with a profound sense of anger, danger - and determination. 
   To the young men and women I met, and their capable commanders, I pledged that their grit and determination would be backed by America because we understand that we will be more secure when they succeed. They've done all we've asked of them, and more. 
   One of the things that makes our military the best in the world is the certain knowledge of each soldier, sailor, airman, and Marine that they can always count on their comrades should they need help - that they will never be abandoned. As a nation, we owe it to them to guarantee that same support. I am thankful to have had the opportunity to do so in person.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 