SENS. MCCAIN, KYL ANNOUNCE FIRST LAND PURCHASE IN SUPPORT OF LUKE LAND ACQUISITION PLAN
  Sens. John McCain and Jon Kyl praised the Air Force and the work of the Arizona Corps of Engineers to purchase approximately 143 acres of land adjacent to the Luke Air Force Base Munitions Storage Area. This land purchase will help in the State's efforts to preserve access to the Barry M. Goldwater Range (BMGR), to prevent incompatible land uses and encroachment, and to increase the margin of safety in the Live Ordnance Departure Area to the Southwest of Luke Air Force Base (AFB). 
   This is the first step in the land acquisition plan announced by the Air Force in March 2004 to purchase land or restrictive easements around Luke AFB to prevent further encroachment upon the base, ensure the long-term viability of Luke and the military training that occurs on the BMGR, and enhance the security posture of the base.
   The expedited sale by Sun Health Properties, Inc. is expected to account for more than half of the land required to physically connect the munitions storage area to Luke AFB enabling a continuous security buffer zone around the base. Acquisition of the remaining Munitions Storage Area acreage is anticipated by August 2004.
   "This sale is a recognition of the importance of Luke to the local community, the State of Arizona, and the Nation. The land has been sold at a very reasonable price to the taxpayer. The spirit of cooperation and goodwill demonstrated by Leland Peterson and Gary Turner of Sun Health will greatly enhance the security at Luke and safeguard future military access to high value training areas,"said Senator McCain.
   "This sale demonstrates that the partnership between state and local officials, the Air Force, the Corps of Engineers, and local landowners is well on its way toward executing the necessary strategy to prevent encroachment and preserve operations at Luke AFB for years to come," said Senator Kyl.
   The Air Force land acquisition strategy would preserve access to the BMGR by acquiring easement rights for nearly 1,800 acres of land in the Luke AFB departure corridors. The plan also will include purchasing 273 acres of land and installing security fences around the Munitions Storage Area just south of Luke AFB to improve antiterrorism and force protection and improve the safe transportation of live ordnance to the flight line. The Air Force anticipates acquiring the first interest in the Luke Southern Departure Corridor also by August 2004.
   Further information about the Luke AFB acquisitions can be obtained from the Arizona/Nevada Area Office, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers at (602) 640-2015 or the Los Angeles District, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Public Affairs at (213) 452-3925.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; or Andrew Wilder 202/224-7705.
 
 