SENS. KYL, MCCAIN HAIL SENATE PASSAGE OF YAVAPAI LAND EXCHANGE LEGISLATION
  Sens. John McCain and Jon Kyl praised last night's Senate passage of the Northern Arizona Forest Lands Exchange and Verde River Basin Partnership Act of 2004. The bipartisan agreement provides a sound framework for the exchange of 50,000 acres of private and public land in Northern Arizona.  
   The land swap, commonly known as the "Yavapai land exchange," consolidates the largest remaining checkerboard ownership in the state, improves the management of forest lands and conservation of natural resources, as well as provide communities with an opportunity to acquire land needed for economic development, community services, and open space. 
   The bill sets forth a process for a fair market value exchange, which is expected to offer significant benefits for all parties. The bill also addresses the water issues raised by the exchange of lands located within the Verde River Basin watershed by limiting water usage on certain exchanged lands. In addition, it supports the development of a collaborative, science-based water resource planning and management entity for the Verde River Basin watershed. 
   "Thanks to the dedication of all parties involved, this bill is both balanced and foresighted in addressing land use and water issues. I am pleased that the legislation recognizes the importance of addressing limited water supplies in Northern Arizona, while encouraging the economic development in our great state." 
   The bill is also designed to encourage the creation of a multi-stakeholder partnership to facilitate science-based water resource planning and management in the Verde River Basin. It clarifies that the federal government may participate in the partnership to provide scientific, technical, and financial assistance to state and local water resource planning and management efforts. It also limits the amount of water that may be used on the Verde Valley parcel upon its transfer to private hands. "I'm very pleased that Senator McCain and I were able to get the Yavapai land exchange passed in the Senate this year. This is a hard-fought victory for Arizona's environmental and water resource needs," said Senator Kyl. 
   Congressmen Renzi and Hayworth have championed this legislation in the House of Representatives.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/ 224-7705.
 
 