SEN. KYL CONCERNED NEW BUDGET LEAVES ARIZONA'S FORESTS UNPREPARED FOR FIRE
  Sen. Jon Kyl today expressed his concern that funding in the proposed 2007 federal budget isn't enough to prevent and contain wildfires in Arizona and the Southwest.
   "This winter is the driest we've had in Arizona. And now the fire season, which was already expected to be one of the worst ever, has begun early with the ignition of the 'February' fire near Payson," said Kyl. 
   On Saturday, Kyl was in Payson attending a community meeting to talk about preparations for the upcoming fire season. Representatives from the Forest Service as well as state, county, and city officials were also on hand.
   Kyl sent a letter to President Bush today outlining his concerns and urging that the management of forests in the Southwest be given more resources in light of the dire conditions that currently exist and the early start of the fire season. A copy of the letter is attached.
   "Preventing and containing wildfires on National Forests is a federal responsibility, not a state function. I am not convinced that there is enough funding in this budget to meet this responsibility and reduce the wildfire risk to our communities and the surrounding landscapes," added Kyl.
   February 8, 2006
   President George W. Bush The White House Washington, DC 20500
   Dear Mr. President:
   On February 6, you delivered to Congress your budget proposal for fiscal year 2007. I applaud your effort to rein in non-defense, non-homeland security discretionary spending. Tough decisions are necessary and tradeoffs must be made to protect America, reduce the federal deficit, and ensure that taxpayer money is well-spent.
   I am concerned, however, that your budget request for the U.S. Forest Service and the Department of the Interior fails to recognize the dangerous fuel loads, declining forest health, and significant threat of wildfires in the Southwest. The situation is reaching a critical point as the Southwest prepares to confront an unparalleled fire season.
   In my state of Arizona the winter of 2005/2006 has been the driest on record. It is only February, and the fire season has already begun with the "February Fire" burning north of Payson. Given the conditions, I am afraid that Arizona could face the longest and most costly fire season in state history.
   Your budget proposal for the Forest Service cuts fire preparedness by $10 million and other fire operations by nearly 36 percent. These accounts fund fire prevention, detection, and equipment, including the federal aviation assets that are necessary to successfully contain wildfires on initial attack. Although I believe we need to control firefighting costs, we need to be aggressive in our prevention activities and ensure sufficient resources are available. Preventing and containing wildfires on National Forests is a federal responsibility, not a state function. I am not convinced that there is enough funding in this budget to meet this responsibility and reduce the wildfire risk to our communities and the surrounding landscapes.
   Even more disconcerting is the fact that this budget proposal fails to provide the funding, resources, and plans required to address the real issue of overall forest health. Although there are modest increases across several accounts to fund the Healthy Forests Initiative to $610 million (a $12 million increase over fiscal year 2006) it includes just $292 million for hazardous fuel reduction, significantly below the $760 million authorized under the Healthy Forest Restoration Act of 2003. The agencies plan to treat nearly 70 percent of those acres in the wildland-urban interface. What we really need is restoration on a landscape scale. Treatments focused solely on hazardous fuel reduction around communities may be appropriate in some cases, but they do not achieve the enduring fire protection and ecosystem restoration that are urgently required. A greater investment in landscape-scale forest restoration treatments will reverse the degradation of our forests while simultaneously reducing the risk of catastrophic crown fires.
   In addition, the budget proposal has a significant emphasis on implementation of the Northwest Forest Plan. The Forest Service plans to spend $182 million on implementation spread across several accounts including hazardous fuels, vegetation and watershed management and forest products. This is an increase of $66 million over fiscal year 2006. Although I am not opposed to implementation of the Northwest Forest Plan, I am concerned that it is coming at the expense of other regions, including the southwestern region of which Arizona is a part. I believe Forest Service resources need to be concentrated on the most critical acres and communities at risk across the regions.
   I know that you, as long time champion of reversing the disturbing trend of severe wildfire to promote long-term forest health, will work to address these important matters.
   Sincerely,
   JON KYL United States Senator
   Contact: Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705, Ryan Patmintra, 202/ 224-2206.
 
 