SEN. KYL JOINS INTERIOR SECRETARY AT SIGNING OF ZUNI WATER RIGHTS SETTLEMENT
  Sen. Jon Kyl, who pushed legislation through Congress to provide a framework for resolving a longstanding dispute over water rights in northeastern Arizona, joined Interior Department Secretary Gale Norton and other dignitaries Thursday at a signing ceremony for the agreement subsequently reached between the United States government, the Zuni Indian Tribe and rural Arizonans. 
   "This agreement is further proof that even longstanding disagreements over issues as critical as water rights can be resolved without resorting to litigation when the parties involved work diligently and in good faith," Kyl said. "It represents a fair - and final - solution that protects access to water for rural Arizonans while respecting the religious beliefs of the Zuni tribe."
   The dispute stem from competing water-rights claims by the Zuni and small non-Indian communities, local utilities and others for tribal religious lands in northeastern Arizona, an area that was designated by Congress as "the Zuni Heaven Reservation" in 1984.
   The settlement provides the Zuni tribe with the financial resources to acquire water rights in the Little Colorado River basin and to restore the riparian environment that existed previously on the reservation. In return, the Zuni waive future claims to water rights and accept current as well as significant future water use by non-Indian individuals and communities.
   The federal government will provide the bulk of the $26.5 million to settle claims, implement the agreement, and restore Zuni Reservation land.
   Kyl sits on the Water and Power Subcommittee of the Senate's Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. Sen. John McCain cosponsored the Senate bill; companion legislation in the House was sponsored by Rep. Rick Renzi (R-AZ) and most of the Arizona delegation. President Bush signed it into law in June of 2003.
   Contact: Matthew Latimer and Andrew Wilder, 202/224-4521.
 
 