SEN. KYL INITIATIVE GUARANTEES AIR-CONDITIONING AID TO NEEDY ARIZONANS
  The Senate last night approved legislation that would ensure a more equitable distribution of funds through the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) expressed satisfaction that the final legislation incorporated a formula change he proposed while voicing concerns about the fiscal impact of the bill. 
   "States like Arizona and Nevada have populations that are almost four times that of Maine, yet Maine would've received three times more funds under this program prior to formula change," said Kyl. "Extreme heat does not pose any less of a health risk than extreme cold. Although I would have preferred to see 100 percent of the LIHEAP funding allocated through a formula method, I am pleased that the measure I proposed as a compromise was adopted unanimously."
   Kyl pressed the case that the program, which still relied on demographic assumptions based on 1980 census data, should factor in total home-energy costs and target the groups most in need, rather than giving disproportionate weight to cold-weather gauges and outdated population figures.
   Fifty percent of the new program funds will be distributed nationally by formula, with the remaining fifty percent left in an emergency contingency fund distributed at the discretion of the President. Preliminary data indicate that Senator Kyl's efforts will bring Arizona an additional $3,082,416 in LIHEAP funds, which marks a 57 percent increase in what the original bill would have offered.
   The legislation approved would make $1 billion provided for LIHEAP by last year's Deficit Reduction Act for fiscal year 2007, available this year instead. The bill however, details no solutions on how to fund the program for next year. Kyl expressed hope that the final version of the legislation will be paid for within the current budget.
   "I had hoped that in moving to address concerns about high home energy costs facing poor families that the Senate acted in a more fiscally responsible manner. To use funds not available until next year will only continue the never-ending cycle of deficit spending."
   Contact: Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705; Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-2206.
 
 