SEN. KYL JOINS SEN. MCCAIN TO END PORK BARREL SPENDING
  Sen. Jon Kyl today joined Sen. John McCain to introduce the "Pork-Barrel Reduction Act," which will tighten restrictions on lobbyist activities and limit the frivolous practice of earmarking in appropriations bills. 
   "The Pork-Barrel Reduction Act recognizes the egregious deficiencies in current procedure and represents an earnest and thoughtful attempt to correct them," Kyl said. "Our constituents have elected us to use taxpayer dollars in the most responsible and fiscally-sound ways-not pass bloated legislation filled with frivolous pork-barrel projects."
   The Pork-Barrel Reduction Act requires full disclosure, including the identity of the lawmaker, of any and all earmarks included in bills or conference reports; provides that all earmarks must be in the original text of the bill, which would allow for amendments and open debates; requires conference reports be publicly available at least 48 hours prior to floor consideration; obligates recipients of federal dollars to disclose the amount of money that they spend on registered lobbyists; and allows for the elimination of any earmarks not relevant to the subject matter of the bill.
   In fiscal year 2005 alone, there were over 15,000 earmarks, representing over $47 billion dollars in egregious expenditures of taxpayer dollars. This marks a 500 percent increase in the number of earmarks from 1996.
   "We have a problem; I think that much is clear," Kyl said. "If other Members of this chamber do not agree with specific provisions of this bill, I ask that they offer constructive suggestions as to how best to breathe life back into the institutional balance between authorization and appropriations. In the midst of the War on Terrorism and projected budget deficits, it would be an abrogation of our role as elected officials to allow the status quo to persist."
   Sens. Tom Coburn (R-OK), Russ Feingold (D-WI), Evan Bayh (D-IN), John Ensign (R-NV), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John Sununu (R-NH), and Jim DeMint (R-SC) are also co-sponsors of the bill.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705; Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-2206.
 
 