SEN. KYL, REP. GRIJALVA APPLAUD SENATE COMMITTEE PASSAGE OF BOUNDARY CHANGE FOR HISTORIC YUMA AREA
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) applauded yesterday's passage by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee of H.R. 326, a measure that modifies the boundaries of the Yuma Crossing Heritage Area. Sen. Kyl introduced the Senate companion along with Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) and requested that the Committee take up the House bill, which was introduced by Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ).  
   "I applaud the committee's action and am pleased that we are now in the home stretch toward enactment," said Senator Kyl. "The Act is the culmination of community interests. It's a non-controversial, straightforward correction that will alleviate any concerns that the Heritage Area designation would affect private property rights." 
   "This is great news for the City of Yuma in its effort to preserve the Yuma Crossing National Heritage Area," said Representative Grijalva. "I appreciate Senator Kyl's leadership in moving the bill another step closer to final passage. As the bill has already passed the House, it is my hope that the bill will soon go to the full Senate for the vote so that it may be signed into law." 
   The Yuma Crossing National Heritage Area Boundary Adjustment Act amends the legislation passed in 2000 to adjust the boundary of the Yuma Crossing National Heritage Area to conform to the lines set forth in the Heritage Area Management Plan approved by the Secretary of the Interior in 2002. 
   The Yuma Crossing Heritage Area was designated in October 2000, the product of a preliminary concept plan completed in 1999 by the Heritage Area Task Force. The boundaries proposed in that plan included approximately 22 square miles, extending from the Colorado River on the north and west to the Avenue 7E alignment on the east and the 12th street alignment on the south. 
   "These boundaries represented the task force's 'best guess' at the time as to the cultural landscape warranting inclusion in the heritage area," Senator Kyl said. "During the development of the final Heritage Area Management Plan, which was subject to comprehensive community involvement, it became apparent that the boundaries were too large and should be more concentrated along the Colorado River and in historic downtown. Rather than simply leave the boundaries as they were set in the 2000 legislation, we have heard from the community in Yuma that it is important to conform the boundaries to those in the agreed-upon Management Plan."
   Contact: Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705; Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-2206.
 
 