SEN. KYL ANNOUNCES REIMBURSEMENT GUIDELINES FOR EMERGENCY HEALTH CARE
  Sen. Jon Kyl today announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has issued guidelines for the reimbursement of costs incurred by local hospitals in providing federally mandated, but uncompensated, emergency care to illegal aliens.  
   Section 1011 of the 2004 Medicare reform bill, which Kyl authored, provides for $1 billion in reimbursement over four years, of which Arizona providers are slated to receive $180 million, or up to $45 million per year. The new guidelines, issued by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, provide the hospitals with a process for documenting their costs and receiving payment; Kyl plans to review the specifics and push for change if necessary. The system will be operational as of Tuesday, May 10. 
   "It is enormously unfair for Arizona's hospitals to bear a hugely disproportionate burden for mandated emergency health treatment for illegal aliens, and relief is long overdue," Kyl said. "This is not simply a balance sheet issue - it negatively affects the quality and availability of care for U.S. citizens and other legal residents, as we have seen with the closing of facilities along the border and the curtailment of critical services like labor and delivery. Until the federal government secures the border, illegal aliens are going to continue to show up on hospital doorsteps. The objective here is frankly to keep our emergency rooms open in the meantime." 
   The estimated annual cost to hospitals and other providers of emergency health care nationwide for illegal aliens - mandated but not funded by the federal Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act - is $1.45 billion. According to congressionally-commissioned research from the MTG Corporation, the annual cost to just the 24 counties along the border in Texas, New Mexico and California exceeds $200 million. 
   Kyl also noted that the reimbursement program should help raise national awareness of the costs related to illegal immigration. "Many northern states don't feel that illegal immigration as a major problem because it's not perceived as their problem," Kyl said. "But the reality is that illegal immigration is a genuinely national issue, and resolving it requires a national commitment not just on health care but also border control, law enforcement and other resources."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 