SEN. KYL RE-INTRODUCES ARIZONA TRAILS BILL
  Sen. Jon Kyl, along with Sen. John McCain, today re-introduced legislation that calls for a study to determine the feasibility and desirability of designating the Arizona Trail as a National Scenic or Historic Trail. An identical bill is slated to be introduced in the House of Representatives by Rep. Jim Kolbe, on behalf of the entire Arizona House delegation.  
   "The Arizona Trail is highly deserving of consideration for national designation," Kyl said. A roller coaster ride through the wide range of ecological diversity in the state, the Trail corridor begins at the Coronado National Memorial on the U.S. Mexico Border, and winds some 800 miles, ending on the Bureau of Land Management's Arizona Strip District on the Utah Border. "As it connects these two points, the trail invites exploration of the state's most renowned mountains, canyons, deserts and forests, including the Grand Canyon and the Sonora Desert," Kyl said. "This trail is unique in that it was developed to maximize the incorporation of already existing public trails into one continuous trail, to showcase some of the most spectacular scenery in the West." 
   In 1968, Congress established the National Trails System to promote the preservation of historical resources and outdoor areas. National scenic and national historic trails may be designated only by an act of Congress. The first step toward national trail designation is the feasibility study process. 
   The Arizona Trail is maintained by a partnership of over 16 federal, state and local agencies, as well as numerous community and business organizations and countless volunteers. "Authorizing this study and ultimately designating the Arizona Trail as a national trail will help streamline its management, boost tourism and recreation, and preserve a magnificent natural, cultural, historical experience of the American West," Kyl said. 
   The Arizona Trail Feasibility Study Act was first introduced a year ago, in the last session of Congress.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder 202/224-7705.
 
 