SEN. KYL: EXTEND TAX RELIEF TO KEEP ECONOMY GROWING
  In anticipation of House of Representatives action on H.R. 4297, the Tax Relief Extension Reconciliation Act of 2005 later today, and Senate vote tomorrow, Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) welcomed the advancement, noting the success of today's economy is in large part due to the pro-growth tax relief policies extended in this legislation. 
   "We should recognize the economic successes we enjoy today are the result of the policies the Senate is set to extend in the tax reconciliation relief bill tomorrow," said Kyl. "It's undeniable that the tax-relief policies we implemented in 2003 have contributed to record-level Treasury revenues, low unemployment rates, all-time stock market highs, and overall economic strength."
   Government estimators had predicted that the reduction in capital gains tax rates enacted in 2003 would cost the federal government $27 billion in lost revenues for 2004, but the Congressional Budget Office now reports that the lower rates actually brought in an additional $26 billion in revenue. So instead of costing $27 billion, the lower rates made $26 billion for the U.S. Treasury.
   Since August 2003, the economy has created nearly 5.3 million jobs (138,000 new jobs in April alone). The economy has experienced 32 consecutive months of job growth and is creating better jobs in high-wage fields. The nation's unemployment rate is 4.7 percent - the lowest in nearly five years, and well below the averages of the last four decades.
   The nation's gross domestic product - the leading indicator of economic growth - grew at an annual rate of 4.8 percent in the first quarter of this year. This follows the nation's economic growth rate of 3.5 percent in 2005 - the fastest rate of any major industrialized nation in the world.
   "This week, the Dow Jones hit a six-year high," said Kyl. "And now all eyes are watching the market to see whether the stock market will hit its highest level ever - it's nonsense to believe the tax policies in place have not helped our economy. Extending tax relief will sustain our growing economy.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 