SENS. LIEBERMAN, MCCAIN, KYL, GRAHAM, COLEMAN OFFER IRAN AMENDMENT
  Senators Lieberman, McCain, Kyl, Graham, and Coleman today introduced a bipartisan amendment to the Defense Authorization Act, confronting the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran over its proxy attacks on American soldiers in Iraq.  
   The amendment details the publicly available evidence put forward over the past year by General David Petraeus, commanding general of Multi-National Force Iraq, and others about Iran's violent and destabilizing activities in Iraq. 
   The amendment states that "the murder of members of the United States Armed Forces by a foreign government or its agents is an intolerable act of hostility against the United States," and demands the government of Iran "take immediate action" to end all forms of support it is providing to Iraqi militias and insurgents. The amendment also mandates a regular report on Iran's anti-coalition activity in Iraq. 
   "For many months, our military commanders and diplomats have warned us that the Iranian government has been training, equipping, arming, and funding proxies in Iraq who are murdering our troops," said Senator Lieberman. "This amendment is a common sense, common ground statement of the Senate to Tehran: we know what you are doing, and you must stop." 
   "American officials attest that the government in Teheran seeks to bleed the United States and render unsuccessful our efforts to bring about a stable and self-governing in Iraq," said Senator McCain. "This amendment will send a clear signal: Iran's activities in Iraq are wrong, and they must end immediately." 
   "The Iranians are attempting to thwart our policies in the Middle East by actively supporting terrorists who are killing our troops in Iraq," said Senator Kyl. "It is time we acknowledge this hostility against us, and this amendment tells the Iranians we will not tolerate any actions which threaten our troops or allies." 
   "The evidence is increasingly clear the Iranian government is working to destabilize the Iraqi government," said Senator Graham. "It is long past time for Congress to speak out about this destructive behavior by Iran. We need one voice, and I expect it will be a unified bipartisan voice, speaking out and condemning these actions by the Iranian government." 
   "The United States will not tolerate Iran's hostile attempts to sabotage our efforts in the Middle East region," said Senator Coleman. "On my last trip to Iraq, our Minnesota troops in Southern Iraq showed me Iranian-made explosives that were used against them on convoy missions. This crucial amendment makes it clear to the Iranian government, and any other government in the region that seeks to harm our soldiers, that providing any form of support to Iraqi insurgents will not be tolerated and must cease immediately."
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 