ARIZONANS TESTIFY ON RESEARCH INTO RAPID DETECTION, RESPONSE TO BIO-TERROR ATTACKS
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ), chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Terrorism, Technology and Homeland Security, held a hearing today to explore the science behind "Project Zebra" - a project that could dramatically improve our nation's ability to detect and respond to a bio-terrorist attack.  
   "Time can mean the difference between life and death when it comes to responding to a bio-terrorist attack," said Kyl. "Today, health providers must rely on time-consuming methods before they can know if a patient is infected, and what they are dealing with. Project Zebra can make the difference in saving lives." 
   When responding to a bio-terrorist incident, making a rapid diagnosis of potential infection is critical to determining the appropriate course of action. The concept proposed by Project Zebra could dramatically expedite diagnoses so that potential bio-terror threats are quickly communicated to the public. 
   Project Zebra refers to a collaborative, scientific research effort by leading scientists and universities - many of which are in Arizona - to create a genetic profile database of infectious agents along with a new diagnostic test that, together, will quickly determine the source of infection in patients. 
   Such a diagnostic test would compare a patient sample against known infectious agent signatures in the database. It would provide medical personnel an ability to distinguish between bio-terror agents and routine diseases. A diagnosis could potentially be made within an hour. Currently, it can take more than a day if a lab culture must be grown. 
   "Scientific research being conducted in Arizona may someday provide doctors with a fast, new way to diagnose infections - whether they are terror-related or as simple as the common cold," said Kyl. 
   Kyl invited several distinguished witnesses to testify about the scientific research behind "Project Zebra." Witnesses included: Dr. Jeffery Trent is a leader in the field of genomic medicine and is considered a pioneer in the arena of functional genomics as applied to human diseases. He is president and scientific director of the Translational Genomics Research Institute (TGen) in Phoenix, Arizona. Dr. Paul Keim is a leading expert in the field of pathogen genomics. He is a scientist with TGen and a faculty member at Northern Arizona University in Flagstaff. Dr. Harvey Meislin is one of the most influential ER physicians in the nation and actively involved in emergency response training programs. He heads up the ER department at the University of Arizona in Tucson. Dr. David Relman is one the country's leaders in the field of gene expression profiling and infectious diseases. He serves on the faculty at Stanford Medical School and is a practicing physician with the VA. 
   For more information, or to get copies of the prepared witness testimony, please contact the Kyl press office.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 