SEN. KYL CALLS FOR INCREASED FUNDING FOR PROGRAMS CRITICAL TO FOREST HEALTH
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) today released a coauthored letter that he and Sen. Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) sent to Senate Appropriators requesting a greater investment in biomass-utilization grant programs within the Forest Service and the Department of Energy. They are critical to cost-effective long-term forest restoration and sustainable economic development in our rural communities. 
   "Funding for these programs is critical to meeting the missions of the forest-management agencies, is effective in helping the economies of our rural forest communities, and plays an important role in developing alternative sources of energy," said Kyl and Bingaman in the letter.
   Biomass-utilization grant programs help reduce forest management costs on public, private, state, and tribal lands by increasing the value of biomass and other forest products generated by hazardous fuels reduction and other forest treatments. They also create business incentives for increased use of biomass and facilitate projects that help remove economic and market barriers for use of small-diameter trees and woody biomass.
   These grants help to address two significant natural resource challenges in Arizona and the west: restoring the health of our forests and developing a clean and renewable source of energy. In the case of wildfire, reduced costs means that more fuel treatment work is possible, which will lessen the threat of wildfires and the damage they do to communities and the environment.
   The bipartisan letter was signed by 14 Senators, many from western states, where the threat of wildfires and the need for forest-health funding remains greatest.
   "The need for healthier forests is not a partisan issue," said Kyl. "The more we can do to encourage programs and policies that clean up excessive biomass in forests, the sooner we will see a reduction in the damage wildfires inflict."
   A copy of the letter is available at: http://kyl.senate.gov/legis_center/BiomassFundingLetter.pdf
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 