SEN. KYL: SECURITY BILL MISSES MARK IN KEY AREAS
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz) today voted against legislation that ostensibly was dedicated to improving national security, yet failed to include key provisions that would help prevent terrorists and criminals from entering the United States, expedite the deportation of criminal aliens, and increase penalties for supporting terrorism.  
   "While I can applaud the part of this bill that helps states improve their interoperability capabilities, this bill misses the mark in many key areas," said Kyl. "One would assume that a bill entitled 'Improving America's Security' would actually help improve America's security, yet the primary accomplishment of this bill seemingly is the creation of labor unions within a government agency that is entrusted with our homeland security. 
   Republicans wanted to ensure that a vital national security function is not controlled by union politics. Homeland Security officials would be required to get approval from unions for every change in policy or personnel assignments, inhibiting their ability to flexibly respond to terrorist threats and other emergencies. 
   "Senate Democratic leadership had a real opportunity here to work together to craft legislation that could help strengthen our national security and prevent terrorism," said Kyl. "But once again, they failed to permit votes on key amendments to help improve legislation dealing with the most critical issue facing our nation." 
   The pending amendments that were offered but were not allowed consideration: would have made it a crime to recruit people to commit terrorist acts; authorizes the immediate deportation of suspected terrorists whose visas are revoked on terrorism grounds; prevents the release of criminal aliens whose home countries delay their return to their home country; makes it a crime to encourage terrorism by rewarding the families of suicide bombers after the bombings take place; and increases penalties for those who perpetuate terrorist hoaxes. 
   The Improving America's Security Act of 2007 also does not implement all of the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. All but two of the 9/11 Commission recommendations were already addressed by legislation passed by the Republican Congress or by independent action by the Bush Administration.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 