SEN. KYL APPLAUDS NEW BORDER FUNDING IN HOMELAND SECURITY APPROPRIATIONS BILL
  Sen. Jon Kyl today praised action of the Senate Appropriations Committee's Subcommittee on Homeland Security that would increase funding for border security programs by $600 million over President Bush's budget, totaling $9.8 billion.  
   "It's enormously gratifying to see the rest of the Congress finally in agreement that we've got big problems along the border and need to take action now," Kyl said. "We've learned in recent months that the border can be brought under control with the right resources and a sustained level of commitment. There's more work to be done, but this money moves us closer to where we need to be." 
   The subcommittee directed the department to use the money to hire 1,000 more border agents, in addition to 500 new positions funded by an emergency appropriations bill last month (both pushed heavily by Kyl), in order to reach the goal of 10,000 more agents over the next 10 years. Subcommittee Chairman Judd Gregg, R-N.H. said the Homeland Security Department also would spend the increased funding on expanding training facilities, adding 2,200 more detention beds to hold illegal immigrants and increase the number of U.S. Customs and immigration enforcement officers. Gregg pledged that "Within a ... year and a half, we will effectively detain anyone entering the country illegally," a goal Kyl has stressed consistently for years. 
   The bill also includes further development of cost-saving technology along the border, and $55 million for tactical infrastructure (such as roads, barriers and lights) in Arizona. Overall, it would provide the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) with $30.8 billion in discretionary spending for the department and its programs. 
   "We'll continue to work with the Appropriations Committee and the Senate leadership on the overall border enforcement issue, particularly for the hard-hit areas of Arizona," said Kyl, who recently released (along with Sen. John Cornyn, R-TX) draft language on the enforcement and funding provisions of a comprehensive immigration reform bill the two plan to introduce this summer. "More help is on the way."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 