SEN. KYL'S AMENDMENT TO ADD $5 MILLION FOR FRAUDULENT ID INVESTIGATORS IN SOUTHWEST
  An amendment authored by Sen. Kyl and included in the Commerce Justice and Science Appropriations bill will provide $5 million to hire additional officers dedicated to the investigation of counterfeiters of fraudulent federal identification and other documents.  
   "One of the key components of meaningful immigration reform is strengthening the reliability of federal documentation," Kyl said. "The recently passed Real ID Act is designed to make driver's licenses more difficult to counterfeit; my amendment would complement that function by adding law enforcement resources to help stop the forging of federal identity documents and travel documents, as well as those allowing access to federal programs." 
   The funding, under the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force, would support approximately 65 officers in Southwestern states, who would focus exclusively on the complex and time-consuming business of dismantling criminal rings engaged in the manufacture of fraudulent identity documents. Kyl, who learned of the need for such resources from local police in Arizona, noted that the state has only 3 such officers on its Fraudulent Identification Task Force, which is investigating a ring of illegal aliens using businesses as front operations to manufacture and sell counterfeit identification documents, including alien registration cards, driver's licenses, social security cards, and birth certificates. Posing undercover as nationals from countries of special interest to the United States, Arizona officers have already purchased a variety of such illegal documents. 
   "There are two things that a criminal illegal alien needs, whether they're dealing drugs or seeking to commit a terrorist attack: an identity, and the ability to travel," Kyl said. "This amendment will help the states that are on the front line of illegal immigration fight this kind of crime at its earliest stages."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 