SHOWING WASHINGTON THE BORDER FIRSTHAND, HELPING COMMUNITIES BEAR ITS COSTS
  Last week, Department of Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff accompanied Senator John McCain and me on a tour of federal border facilities in Yuma and Douglas. We met with local officials, federal law enforcement officers, resource managers, tribal leaders, and private citizens to discuss the problems they encounter on the border with smugglers and illegal immigrants. We also had the opportunity to look over the entire border while flying at low altitude between those two cities.  
   The problems posed by our southern border in Arizona are not new. I have been working for years to create awareness that our national security and public safety are compromised when the federal government does not have adequate operational control of the border. I have fought every year to increase personnel, high-technology equipment, and infrastructure along the border. It was the adoption of my amendment in 1995, for example, that boosted the number of U.S. Border Patrol agents nationwide from 4,000 to over 11,000 today. I have cosponsored another amendment to the FY2006 budget that would provide for an additional 2,000 agents per year for the next five years. 
   On his visit to the border, Secretary Chertoff met with tribal leaders to discuss the unique challenges they face due to smuggling and human traffickers. As he flew over the vast expanse of the Tohono O'Odham nation, the Secretary was able to look over the terrain where 111,000 undocumented aliens were apprehended, and 70,000 pounds of narcotics were seized last year. The Secretary learned from representatives at the Barry M. Goldwater Range that illegal immigrants crossing the Range have significantly disrupted training operations for our military pilots, some of whom are preparing for deployment in Iraq and Afghanistan. The U.S. Marine Corps has already lost 855 hours of training time this year - a full 30% of their time has been disrupted by illegal immigrants - while the U.S. Air Force has lost 139 hours since October 2004. 
   We also had an opportunity to meet with local officials about the drain that illegal immigration places on their limited resources, including health care providers, local law enforcement, and the judicial system. For example, a 2001 study showed that Santa Cruz and Cochise counties spent approximately 33 percent of their criminal justice budgets to process criminal illegal immigrants. 
   The Federal government has the obligation and the duty to gain control of the border, in order to protect national security and public safety, and to preserve the sovereignty of the United States. Until the federal government has restored law and order to the border, it must, as a principled and practical matter, help to compensate the states and localities that are bearing the brunt of illegal migration. In addition to legislation I introduced earlier in the year with Senator Feinstein (D-CA) to authorize $750 million per year for states and localities for the costs they incur to incarcerate criminal illegal immigrants, this week I introduced a bill along with senators Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn (both R-TX) to provide $500 million per year for four years to reimburse states and counties for costs related to, among other things, indigent defense, criminal prosecution, autopsies, translators/interpreters, court costs, and detention costs if necessary. 
   To address the costs to our health care system and hospitals, I authored a provision in the 2004 Medicare Modernization Act which provides $180 million over four years to Arizona's hospitals to help cover the costs of federally-mandated, but uncompensated, emergency room care. The reimbursements will not fully compensate our hospitals, but they are necessary to keep emergency rooms open so that all Arizonans can get the care they need. 
   Probably the most powerful impression of the trip was the clarity and consistency of the message. From Douglas to Yuma, from Border Patrol to international businessmen who need to cross the border legally to make a living, the message was the same: You must secure the border to secure the homeland. 
   In this vein, we highlighted for the Secretary the potential for terrorists to sneak into the United States along with whatever deadly weapons they might be able to carry. We emphasized that "coyotes" and other smugglers are not different from any other form of organized criminals. They are proactive, adapt quickly to new law enforcement approaches, and are ruthless in their tactics. The coyotes and smugglers have absolutely no concern about what they bring, or who they bring, across the border, as long as the price is right. That price is certainly within the means of organizations like al Qaeda. 
   Soon, Senator Cornyn and I plan to introduce a comprehensive immigration reform bill to address both border and interior security and, when needed, to matching U.S. employers in need of labor with willing foreign workers. We must start this process, however, by providing additional resources to enforce existing immigration laws, and protect our homeland from the threat of terrorists crossing our borders. Then, we must follow up with a credible system of worker eligibility verification to enable employers to confirm they are not hiring illegal immigrants. 
   We need a commitment to enforce the law. Protecting the homeland is a federal obligation, and it is time for the federal government to take responsibility and act to secure the Arizona border.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 