SEN. KYL: ISRAEL HAS FULL SUPPORT OF U.S.
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) will be part of a bipartisan group of Senators that will introduce a Senate Resolution later today condemning the actions of Hezbollah and fully supporting Israel's self-defense efforts. The following are excerpts from his floor statement today:  
   "In a time when one of our closest allies is threatened by indiscriminate attacks on its population centers, and our President and Secretary of State are overseas, it is incumbent on this body to remain united in standing behind Israel. I am pleased that the [Senate] leadership is preparing a resolution expressing bipartisan condemnation of Hezbollah's attacks, and support for Israel's right to respond in the name of self-defense." 
   "I am pleased that our allies, too, understand the grave nature of this crisis - and its origins. The joint statement released over the weekend by the G8 states unequivocally that this violence 'results from efforts by extremist forces to destabilize the region and to frustrate the aspirations of the Palestinian, Israeli, and Lebanese people for democracy and peace. These extremist elements and those that support them cannot be allowed to plunge the Middle East into chaos, and a wider conflict.' 
   "In light of the chaos being precipitated by Hezbollah's rocket and missile capability - a capability being provided directly to Hezbollah by the governments of Syria and Iran - I thought it would be appropriate to take a moment today to talk about how that threat can be addressed. The estimated 13,000 missiles currently in Hezbollah's arsenal are hidden throughout Southern Lebanon, in private homes, caves, and factories. At present, the only way to destroy these systems is to search them out on foot - a risky and potentially provocative solution. Alternatively, Israeli forces can strike at missile launchers after they have fired, meaning that at least one salvo will already be en route. It would be a vast improvement if Israel had the option of neutralizing the Hezbollah threat through defensive, rather than offensive means. 
   "We still don't know how the current crisis is going to end. What we can and should say, however, is that Israel has the full support of this body in its ongoing efforts to fight terrorists, protect its citizens, and create the circumstances for peaceful coexistence with Lebanon, and all of its neighbors."
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 