SEN. KYL CITES TESTIMONY AT JOINT SUBCOMMITTEE HEARING THAT BORDER CAN BE CONTROLLED
  At a hearing on immigration reform today, Sen. Jon Kyl lauded the testimony of Mark Reed, a consultant on immigration enforcement from Tucson and former 27-year veteran of the Immigration & Naturalization Service, as well as Asa Hutchinson, former Under Secretary of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security who set the Bush administration's immigration policy priorities.  
   Reed cited a previous worksite enforcement initiative known as "Vanguard" that was so successful it was ultimately scaled back because more than 3500 undocumented workers left the Nebraska meatpacking industry. "The bottom line," Kyl said, "is that history has shown that, with an adequate supply of resources and political will, we can enforce workforce eligibility law." 
   Likewise, former undersecretary Hutchison testified that America's borders can be brought under control if adequate infrastructure and other resources are made available, along with a more usable guest worker program that is realistically enforceable at the workplace. 
   "This testimony is critical because few people can say with more authority than these two men that what so many have called impossible - securing our borders and enforcing employment law - is in fact very feasible if we're willing to commit the necessary resources," Kyl said. 
   Kyl and Cornyn have announced their intention to introduce comprehensive immigration reform legislation that would focus heavily on border security and enforcement of immigration law. 
   The hearing was held jointly by the Senate Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Terrorism, Technology and Homeland Security, which Kyl chairs, and the Subcommittee on Immigration, Border Security and Citizenship, which is chaired by Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX). It was part of a larger effort by Kyl and Cornyn to help educate the Congress, the Administration, and the public on the need to enforce immigration laws in order to protect the United States from terrorist and criminal threats, as well as to restore integrity to the rule of law.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 