SEN. KYL APPLAUDS FINAL PASSAGE OF MAJOR ARIZONA WATER SETTLEMENTS BILL
  Sen. Jon Kyl applauded the House's approval today of legislation - already passed by the Senate - that would settle claims over Indian tribal water rights and allow the U.S. government and Arizona to settle repayments owed for construction of the Central Arizona Project (CAP). The White House has indicated support for the bill.  
   "This vote completes 15 years of hard work, by literally dozens of parties, to resolve amicably a long list of disputes that affect their very livelihoods" said Kyl, who has helped lead the complex and painstaking process. 
   The settlement will bring long-sought certainty to cities and communities as they plan their growth and development, as well as provide a means for Indian tribes to bring into use water rights that thus far exist only on paper. It is a major component of a long-term water plan for Arizona." The bill also resolves a long-running clash between the state and the federal government over nearly $2 billion in repayments for construction of the Central Arizona Project. 
   The Arizona Water Settlements Act (S. 437), co-sponsored with Senator John McCain, is divided into four titles. The first resolves the repayment issue and the allocation of CAP water between state and federal interests and creates a funding mechanism for current and future Indian water settlements. The second covers claims by the Gila River Indian Community, and the third amends the 1982 "Southern Arizona Water Rights Settlement Act," resolving claims by the Tohono O'odham Nation. The fourth title concerns separate issues involving the San Carlos Apache tribe. The companion legislation was introduced in the House by U.S. Rep. J.D. Hayworth (R-AZ) - who Kyl praised for his strong leadership - with bipartisan support from the Arizona delegation. 
   "The people of Arizona have waited a long time for this agreement. Virtually every major water user and provider in central Arizona has devoted itself to the passage of this bill," Kyl said. "Looking ahead, this could ultimately be nearly as important to Arizona=s future as was the authorization of the Central Arizona Project itself."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 