SEN. KYL: TEMPORARY MEANS TEMPORARY
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) today will introduce an amendment to S. 2611, the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006, that would ensure future participants in a temporary worker program cannot be placed on a pathway to citizenship. The White House has expressed support of Kyl's amendment. 
   "A temporary worker program should be for temporary workers, and not for aliens who wish to become U.S. citizens - we already have a program for that," said Kyl. "When the economy has a high demand for workers and can satisfy the demand with foreign workers, temporary work permits could be granted. But when the economy enters an economic downturn, no more temporary visas should be granted until jobs are again available to foreign workers. A temporary worker program should allow foreign workers in when the economy needs them - and prevent them from being here when the economy is struggling and there are not enough jobs even for Americans. Temporary must mean temporary."
   The Kyl amendment prohibits illegal immigrants who have been in the country less than five years and any future program participants from being eligible for legal permanent residence or citizenship under the bill. In its current form, the bill allows all illegal immigrants and future foreign workers who enroll in the temporary worker program become legal permanent residents and be placed on a pathway to citizenship.
   "Under the provisions of the bill, temporary workers can petition with their employer for a green card on the very first day they start work," said Kyl. "Senator Kennedy's amendment that passed this morning goes one step further by allowing these temporary workers to even self-petition for permanent status in the United States. We are talking about hundreds of thousands of workers each year, added to the 10 million or so unauthorized workers already here who will receive a permanent right to remain in the United States, unless my amendment is passed.
   "We must think ahead to a day when the economy might not be as strong and robust as it is today, and we're left with millions of what will be unemployed foreign workers. Our first responsibility is to the American people and the American economy.""
   Kyl and Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) are the authors of S. 1438, the Comprehensive Enforcement and Immigration Reform Act of 2005, the only Senate proposal that creates a temporary worker program that does not place illegal immigrants on an automatic path to citizenship.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 