ARIZONA LAWMAKERS ANNOUNCE REVERSAL OF FEMA DECISION ON LEVEE-LIKE STRUCTURES IN MARANA
  U.S. Senators John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), and Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.), today announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency will change its analysis of flood plain risks in Pima County to include consideration of the flood mitigation effects of levee-like structures in Marana.  
   The Flood Mitigation Division at FEMA, in response to the concerns of the congresswoman and senators, is allowing the Town of Marana time to examine these structures. The results of this study will be reviewed by FEMA prior to the agency drafting official maps. 
   FEMA's decision is a reversal of the agency's position regarding the timeframe for issuing flood maps. Previously, the agency planned to issue new flood maps that would have disregarded the potential flood protection afforded by three major structures, Interstate 10, the Union Pacific Railroad tracks and the Central Arizona Project Canal. 
   "This decision is a positive step towards ensuring that FEMA's flood plain maps are drafted to accurately reflect the environmental conditions in Arizona," said McCain. "The input of the Town of Marana will be extremely beneficial for FEMA in correctly assessing flood risks and flood mitigation effects in final preparation of these maps." 
   "The letter from FEMA acknowledges that the conditions on the ground may not be accurately reflected in the draft maps," said Kyl. "I will stay engaged on this issue to ensure that the modified flood map adequately reflects the flood protection in place in Marana, and in the rest of the state." 
   "I applaud FEMA for this common sense approach to considering the flood mitigation effects of these structures," said Giffords. "The agency has acknowledged that structures like canals and highways can play a significant role, and has assured us they want the flood maps to accurately reflect these effects." 
   Giffords and Kyl announced the FEMA decision this afternoon in a video conference with officials from Marana and other communities. Giffords and Kyl participated from Washington, and the local officials participated from the Marana Municipal Complex. 
   The lawmakers released a Dec. 18 letter from David I. Maurstad, an assistant administrator and the director of mitigation at FEMA, in which he wrote that the agency is committed to working with Marana to ensure that flood hazard maps "are reflective of the conditions in the field." A copy of the letter is attached. 
   Maurstad assured the lawmakers that draft Pima County maps issued by FEMA in September have no legal force. He acknowledged that the highway, railroad tracks and canal have potential flood mitigating effects, and that those effects warrant additional study before flood maps are finalized. 
   At the lawmakers' request, Maurstad wrote that FEMA has agreed to suspend issuing any new preliminary flood hazard maps until at least Nov. 1, 2008. As required by law, there will be a 90-day appeals window following the issuance of those preliminary maps. Counting the appeals period, Marana will have until at least the end of January 2009 to submit date for incorporation into the new final maps. 
   Maurstad also committed FEMA to provide similar consideration for any other Arizona community that might find itself in a similar situation as Marana.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 