SENS. KYL, FEINSTEIN BILL RAISING PENALTIES FOR IDENTITY THEFT PASSES SENATE
  Sen. Jon Kyl announced today that legislation to stiffen penalties for the crime of identity theft has passed the Senate by Unanimous Consent. Kyl is a primary co-sponsor of the bill. 
   "Short of actual violence, there are few crimes that inspire greater fear than identity theft," Kyl said. "It's not just the hassle, or even the money. It's the profound sense of violation that comes with having someone else actively out there, sullying your good name."
   Under current law, many identity thieves receive short terms of imprisonment or probation and, after their release, go on to use false identities to commit much more serious crimes. H.R. 1731, the Identity Theft Penalty Enhancement Act, increases penalties for those who steal identities to commit immigration violations, firearms offenses, and other serious crimes. The bill also amends current law to impose a higher maximum penalty for identity theft used to facilitate acts of terrorism.
   Provisions of the legislation would help address the growing problem of insiders who use their employment position (such as workers at financial institutions) to commit fraud or help others commit fraud, allowing judges to apply additional penalties to these individuals under the sentencing guidelines.
   The bill requires two or more years in jail - beyond any term of imprisonment for the underlying offense - for individuals who knowingly transfer, possess, or use the means of identification of another person in order to commit a serious Federal predicate offense (including immigration violations, false citizenship crimes, firearms offenses, and other serious violations). Judges would be prohibited from sentencing a convicted defendant to probation or reducing the underlying term of imprisonment. 
   The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) received 161,819 victim complaints of someone using another's information in 2002. Of these, 22 percent involved more than one type of identity crime. The FTC estimates the loss to businesses and financial institutions from identity theft to be $47.6 billion. The costs to individual consumers are about $5 billion. 
   In October, Mohamed Amry, a former employee of a Bally's Health Club in Cambridge, Massachusetts, pleaded guilty to a multi-count indictment charging him with conspiracy to commit bank fraud, access-device fraud, and conspiracy to commit identity theft. Using a skimmer to obtain credit-card data from members of the health club, Amry provided stolen names, Social Security numbers, and credit-card information from at least 30 people to Abdelghani Meskini, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy in connection with the plot to blow up Los Angeles International Airport in 1999.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 