SENATE TO APPROVE SEN. KYL CHILDHELP REGISTRY, CHILD PORN BILL
  The U.S. Senate is expected later today to approve H.R. 4472, the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006, which will include major child safety provisions that stem from legislation authored by Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ).  
   "Stories of abuse and neglect of our children continue to shock and horrify our nation," said Kyl. "And I am hopeful that this legislation will provide the additional resources necessary for our enforcement agencies to fight those that would prey on our children." 
   A bill authored by Kyl, the Childhelp National Registry Act, is now included as a provision in H.R. 4472. The measure specifically instructs the Health and Human Services Department to create a national registry of individuals who have been involved in substantiated cases of abuse or neglect of a child. The information will be compiled from state databases of child abuse or neglect, and will be made available to other states solely for the purpose of protecting children from abuse and neglect. 
   "Creating a national database will enable states to better track offenders and give authorities the tools to better combat abuse," said Kyl. "When abusive parents come to the attention of authorities - for example, when teachers begin to ask about bruises - these parents often pack up and move to a different state. A national database, much like a national child-sex offender registry, is needed to ensure these parents cannot hide from the law." 
   H.R. 4472 also includes significant portions of another bill authored by Kyl, the Internet SAFETY Act, which is intended to fight the rise of child pornography on the Internet, increase criminal penalties of those convicted of facilitating child pornographic transmission, and increase federal resources for prosecution and prevention of child sexual abuse. 
   "While the Internet has provided numerous advances, it unfortunately has also given sexual predators new ways to prey on children," said Kyl. "I am pleased that the core of my legislation has been approved, and am hopeful this will go a long way toward curbing child pornography." 
   The bill is expected to be quickly approved by the U.S. House of Representatives, and signed by the President in advance of July 27, which is the 25th anniversary of the death of Adam Walsh, whom the bill is named after and son of John Walsh, host of "America's Most Wanted." 
   The final text of the legislation will be introduced by way of an amendment, introduced by Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and co-sponsored by Kyl, which replaces the underlying language in its entirety.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 