MISSILE DEFENSE IS AT THE HEART OF HOMELAND SECURITY
  By Sen. Jon Kyl
   As even former Soviet generals have admitted, Ronald Reagan's vision of a defense system that could shoot down incoming ballistic missiles helped win the Cold War. But such a system has not yet been deployed, in large part because funding has been whipsawed by changes in political party control.  
   This year is no different. The Defense Department authorization bill contains $10.2 billion for missile defense, but Democrats are seeking to cut it, often posing the issue as a tradeoff between missile defense and securing our homeland against terrorism. That is a false choice. What would they say if a ballistic missile were to hit a major American city and kill thousands of people? They would probably say the Bush administration hadn't "connected the dots."
   In fact, the threat from ballistic missiles is at the very heart of homeland security, and continues to grow. Today, nearly three dozen countries either already have, or are developing, weapons of increasing range and sophistication. They include the two remaining members of the axis of evil - Iran and North Korea - as well as fellow terrorist regime Syria.
   North Korea is developing the Taepo Dong-2 missile, which can reach the United States with a nuclear weapon-sized payload and may, intelligence analysts believe, be ready for flight testing. Press accounts also raise the possibility that Pyongyang is working on new intermediate range ballistic missiles, capable of reaching U.S. bases in Guam and possibly Hawaii. Of course, North Korea presents a problem not only because of its own capabilities, but also because it sells missiles and related technologies to anyone with hard cash.
   China is already a threat, with a projected ability to deploy its 5,000-mile range DF-31 missile as soon as the end of this year, according to intelligence estimates. The even longer range DF-41 could be deployed in the latter half of the decade. China also has about 500 shorter-range missiles aimed at Taiwan; according to news reports, the Chinese government has warned Taiwan's President Chen Shui-bian to pull back from "a dangerous lurch toward independence" or face "destruction." Not an appealing choice.
   Meanwhile, Iran, which has already purchased one of the largest inventories of ballistic missiles in the Middle East, is rapidly developing the capacity to build its own missiles, with help from North Korea, China and some former members of the Soviet Union. Last June, Iran successfully tested the 800-mile range Shahab-3 missile, which when operational could alter the strategic balance of the region by placing Israel as well as U.S. bases in Turkey within the mullahs' reach. Iran is also seeking to produce a 1,200-mile Shahab-4 missile. 
   These threats are real. We and our allies need a real defense against them. The attacks of September 11 exploited a U.S. weakness in homeland security - if we have no defense against ballistic missiles, that will eventually be exploited as well. We do not have the luxury of confronting terrorist networks on the ground while overlooking the threat of weapons of mass destruction that can be delivered by ballistic missiles. 
   A viable missile defense system will permit the United States the freedom of action that can only come from eliminating - or at least dramatically reducing - the chance that we could find ourselves susceptible to nuclear blackmail by a country like North Korea. Missile defenses will also provide a deterrent by reducing the incentive for development and proliferation by decreasing the strategic value of offensive missiles. That goal, in and of itself, is well worth the investment.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 