SEN. KYL WELCOMES MEXICAN GOVERNMENT MOVE TO IMPROVE BORDER SECURITY FOR BRAZILIAN TOURISTS, BUSINESS TRAVELERS
  Sen. Jon Kyl today welcomed the decision of the government of Mexico to suspend its visa-free entry policy for Brazilian tourists and business travelers in October, noting that the move should help significantly reduce the number of illegal aliens entering the United States via Mexico.  
   "This is the kind of step that makes clear that the Mexican government can absolutely make a difference in helping solve the problem of our porous common border," Kyl said Tuesday. "Our shared concerns about security and terrorist infiltration illustrate an important way that our two governments can make a difference working together." 
   Mexican officials have said publicly that part of the reason for the change in visa policy is that they believe extremist groups such as Hamas and Hezbollah have cells in southern Brazil. 
   Since the no-visa program began in 2000, Brazilians have become one of the largest - and fastest growing - groups of illegal aliens entering the United States, typically using Mexico as a springboard. The number of Brazilians apprehended at the border, virtually zero a decade ago, has tripled over the past year, to 30,000. 
   Meanwhile, the United States' program of "expedited removal," recently expanded by Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff to cover the entire southwestern border, has shown dramatic results in the Del Rio Sector in Texas, reducing the number of Brazilians apprehended by 90 percent over the summer. 
   Expedited removal, under which detainees are immediately returned home rather than released into the U.S. to await hearings (for which most do not appear), "changes the whole paradigm of illegal immigration," Kyl said. "Word gets down the pipeline pretty fast when the law is enforced, and people don't even try to sneak in because they know there's little chance of success. Expedited removal is yet more proof that it is possible to control our borders if we simply have the political will and proper resources."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 