SENATE APPROVES SENS. KYL, FEINSTEIN RESOLUTION ON IRANIAN NUCLEAR PROGRAM
  The U.S. Senate approved late yesterday a resolution co-sponsored by Sens. Jon Kyl and Dianne Feinstein that expresses "the deep concern of Congress over the Islamic Republic of Iran's development of the means to produce nuclear weapons." 
   "The evidence unearthed by the 9/11 Commission on Iran's ties to al Qaeda make the problem of the Iranian regime's clandestine nuclear weapons program all the more critical to resolve. A rebuke by the international community for Iran's noncompliance with its obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty is long overdue."
   Despite its multiple promises to stop pursuing nuclear weapons and reveal existing programs, the Inspector General of the IAEA reported in February that Iran continued to engage in deception regarding its nuclear activities and has cited continuing violations. A unanimously-adopted IAEA Board of Governors' resolution stated in June that Iran's "commitments have not been comprehensively implemented, and calls on Iran immediately to correct all remaining shortcomings."
   "It is time for the International Atomic Energy Agency to report Iran's noncompliance to the U.N. Security Council and for that body to consider all options, including diplomatic and economic sanctions," Kyl said. "We must not allow Iran to become a nuclear state."
   Among other provisions, the Kyl-Feinstein resolution:
   Condemns the failure of the Government of Iran for nearly two decades to report material, facilities, and activities to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in contravention of its obligations under its Safeguards Agreement, as well as Iran's continuing deceptions and falsehoods to the IAEA and the international community about its nuclear programs and activities;
   Calls upon all nations party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), including the United States, to use appropriate means to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons until Iran meets its obligations;
   Calls upon the members of the European Union not to resume discussions with Iran on multilateral trade agreements until the IAEA Director General reports that Iran has suspended all nuclear weapons development activity, and not to implement such trade agreements until Iran has verifiably and permanently ceased all nuclear weapons development activity;
   Urges countries not to proceed with specific joint commercial progress with Iran, including: Japan (development of the Azadegan oil field); and France and Malaysia (expanding Iran's liquid natural gas production field);
   Calls on member states of the United Nations to prevent the Government of Iran from continuing to pursue and develop programs or facilities that could be used in a nuclear weapons program and to end all nuclear cooperation with Iran;
   Urges the United Nations Security Council, immediately upon receiving a report from the IAEA regarding continuing Iranian non-compliance with its obligations, to take action that may be necessary under Articles 39 through 41 of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
   Deplores any effort by any country to provide nuclear power-related assistance to Iran, and specifically calls upon Russia to suspend nuclear cooperation with Iran and not conclude a nuclear fuel supply agreement for the Bushehr reactor.
   The threat posed by Iran extends far beyond its nuclear program, Kyl said. "The problem is the regime itself."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 