SEN. KYL APPLAUDS IRAQI PRIME MINISTER'S ADDRESS TO CONGRESS
  Sen. Jon Kyl today applauded Iraqi interim Prime Minister Ayad Allawi's address to Congress, noting its vindication of both the removal of Saddam Hussein and efforts to construct civil society in Iraq. 
   "There are few words more powerful than a simple 'thank you'," Kyl said Thursday. "No one knows better than Prime Minister Allawi how difficult the challenge will be to bring Iraq fully into the community of civilized, democratic nations after decades of dysfunctional tyranny. And no one knows better the progress that is being made in instilling the values of liberty and democracy."
   Noting Allawi's confidence that elections will be held in January as scheduled, Kyl added, "Perhaps most importantly, no one knows better than Prime Minister Allawi that appeasement of terrorist extremists is not an option. It should surprise no one that violent attacks would crescendo before the election, because a successful democratic exercise is what terrorist extremists fear most. They must not be allowed to succeed in denying the Iraqi people their fundamental right to self-determination."
   After relentless partisan criticism of Iraqi reconstruction efforts and pessimistic assessments of the Iraqi people's capacity for self-government, Kyl said, "It was incredibly refreshing today to hear someone who actually lives in Iraq not only express gratitude but also promise that our sacrifices have not been in vain. I know that we are in our own campaign season and policy differences must be debated, but it is hardly helpful for Democratic candidates to be eagerly seizing upon every piece of bad news they can find. President Bush has always said this would be a long and difficult conflict. But temporary setbacks in Iraq do not change the reality of Prime Minister Allawi's statement that "Today, we are better off, you are better off, the world is better off without Saddam Hussein.'"
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 