SAVING ON DRUGS, WITHOUT JEOPARDIZING HEALTH
  By Sen. Jon Kyl
   Forty years ago, when people were diagnosed with heart disease, high blood pressure, or cancer - or when they suffered a heart attack or stroke - the outlook was often grim. Invasive surgeries and long hospital stays might have been the only options available, if there were any options.  
   It would have been wishful thinking at the time that a miracle drug might become available to alleviate a patient's suffering. If such a drug had existed, patients and their families undoubtedly would have done whatever they could to get that drug. 
   Today, we're fortunate actually to have myriad new miracle drugs available to improve our health and quality of life. Xigris, for example, is a new, first-in-class product to treat severe blood poisoning, and is especially useful in operations where patients are susceptible to infections. Gleevec is a new treatment for acute myelogenous leukemia, a tragic diagnosis would have been a fatal one only two or three years ago. Lovenox can prevent serious, life-threatening cardiovascular events such as blockages and blood clots. 
   These pharmaceuticals and others are readily available today, but they may be difficult to afford, particularly for those with low or fixed incomes. The good news is, new Medicare prescription-drug savings cards are now available to help seniors and the disabled obtain the drugs they need at a reduced cost. 
   A variety of Medicare-approved drug cards, in addition to the CoppeRX Card, will help seniors in Arizona begin to save money next month. Arizona's CoppeRX Card offers savings on some drugs, while the Medicare cards offer greater savings on others. It's important that seniors choose the Medicare card that's right for them so they can save the maximum possible. Anyone needing help to find out which plan would be best for them, their drugs, and the area in which they live, may call my office in Phoenix at (602) 840-1891. 
   Some claim that Internet pharmacies or suppliers in other countries might be able to provide even greater savings. And that is possible. The problem is, the prescription drugs provided by these pharmacies cannot be guaranteed for safety, potency, or effectiveness. 
   Think of it this way: Gasoline prices are higher than anyone would like and some people can afford, but no one would advise you to put watered down gas in your tank just because it's cheaper. The car wouldn't run, and the watery fuel might cause damage to your vehicle. Would you risk your health on a drug that may not be effective or safe just because it's cheaper? That would be penny wise and pound foolish - and potentially life-threatening. 
   Consider this: The Food and Drug Administration reports that as many as a third of Internet websites selling prescription drugs are part of the black market. When the FDA and Customs Service examined nearly 2,800 drug packages shipped to individuals from abroad last summer and fall, they found a great majority contained unapproved drugs posing potentially serious health hazards. 
   For example, in one case, the FDA found a prescription of the powerful anti-depressant drug, Serzone, shipped from an Internet pharmacy in Canada that included too many of the prescribed pills and incorrect directions for use. If the patient had taken the drug according to the Canadian pharmacy's packaging instruction, he or she could have experienced an increased risk of liver failure. 
   The FDA is investigating another firm known as CanaRx, which allegedly shipped insulin under conditions that would not satisfy FDA requirements. (If not stored under refrigerated conditions, the insulin's safety and effectiveness could be compromised.) 
   The FDA also found that many drugs imported from Canada may only have passed through Canada and may never have been inspected or monitored at all. Miracle drugs can be costly. As with anything else, shop for them wisely; and remember, if something sounds too good to be true, it probably is. It's not worth putting your health - or life - at risk to save a few dollars for something that may not really help you.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705
 
 