SEN. KYL-BACKED BILL CREATES FIVE NEW FEDERAL JUDGESHIPS FOR ARIZONA
  In a continuing effort to ease the backlog of cases in federal courts, Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) today cosponsored a bill that creates 11 new judgeships for U.S. District Courts where at least 50 percent of the criminal cases are immigration related. Arizona would get five of the new judgeships.  
   "Federal courts along the southwest border, especially in Arizona, are overwhelmed and experiencing a tremendous backlog of immigration-related cases," Kyl said. "There just aren't enough judges to handle all the cases in a timely manner. Adding these new judgeships is overdue and will go a long way to ease the backlog." 
   Under the bill introduced Senator Pete Domenici (R-N.M.), 11 new permanent and temporary judgeships would be created for districts in Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, and California all in districts that are experiencing immigration caseloads that total at least 50 percent of their total criminal filings." 
   The District of Arizona would get the largest allotment of judges, with four permanent positions and one temporary. The Western District of Texas would gain three permanent judgeships and New Mexico would gain one permanent and one temporary position. The Southern District of California would get one permanent judgeship. 
   In fiscal year 2006 (October 1, 2005 - September 30, 2006), the District of Arizona had 3,265 criminal felony filings, of which 59 percent (1,924 cases) were immigration related. The Western District of Texas had 4,687 criminal felony filings, and 50 percent were immigration related. The Southern District of California had 2,706 criminal felony filings, and 54 percent were immigration related. The District of New Mexico had 2,750 criminal felony filings, and 71 percent were immigration related cases. 
   The bill follows the recommendations of the 2005 Judicial Conference for U.S. District Courts. 
   The bill is also cosponsored by Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) and John Cornyn (R-Texas).
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 