SENS. MCCAIN, KYL APPLAUD SENATE PASSAGE OF YAVAPAI LAND EXCHANGE BILL
  Sens. John McCain and Jon Kyl commended the Senate today for passing the Northern Arizona Land Exchange and Verde River Basin Partnership Act of 2005. The legislation provides a sound framework for the exchange of 50,000 acres of private and public land in Northern Arizona. A companion bill was introduced in the House by Congressmen Rick Renzi and J.D. Hayworth.  
  The land swap, commonly known as the "Yavapai land exchange," consolidates the largest remaining checkerboard ownership in the state; improves the management of forest lands and conservation of natural resources; as well as provides communities with an opportunity to acquire land needed for economic development, community services, and open space. 
  The bill also addresses the water issues raised by the exchange of lands located within the Verde River Basin watershed by limiting water usage on certain exchanged lands. In addition, it supports the development of a collaborative, science-based water resource planning and management entity for the Verde River Basin watershed. 
  "This is a hallmark day for the people of Arizona. This compromise bill is both balanced and foresighted in addressing land use and water issues in Northern Arizona." McCain said, adding, "I am pleased that the legislation promotes sound management of limited water supplies while encouraging economic development in our great state. I urge the House to pass the legislation quickly and send it to the President for timely enactment." 
  Senator Kyl added, "There are few issues more important to the people of Arizona than water resources, forest fire control and sound land management. This land exchange is a unique opportunity to protect our water and natural resources, accommodate the state's tremendous growth and plan for the future. It will also allow communities to acquire previously unavailable land for youth facilities, airports, town parks and recreation areas - the infrastructure that helps turn a population center into a place worth living."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705
 
 