SEN. KYL ISSUES STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT'S STATE OF THE UNION
  U.S. Senate Republican Whip Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) issued the following statement Monday evening following the President's State of the Union Address:  
   "The President, in his final State of the Union Address, outlined an agenda that addresses some of our nation's most pressing challenges. Most immediate is the need for legislation to amend the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). 
   "Al Qaeda still desires to carry out the same kinds of attacks against the United States and other countries that it executed on September 11, 2001. We know the incredible amount of damage that can be inflicted if we do not monitor and respond to this threat. We also know that the best way to deal with al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations is to collect intelligence so that we can prevent attacks from occurring in the first place, rather than having to respond after they have occurred. That is why it is critical for Congress to ensure that under the law, the United States can engage in the kind of intelligence collection against al Qaeda that technology today allows. 
   "Congress amended FISA in 2007 under the Protect America Act (PAA), which conformed the legal procedures to the evolving technology of intelligence collection. The PAA, however, is set to expire on Friday. The Senate has now been in session for almost two weeks since the beginning of this session, and Majority Leader has done very little to advance the issue. Instead, the Senate has devoted much of its time to considering unrelated legislation despite the looming deadline. I join with the President in urging the swift passage of a bill to properly and adequately update FISA. 
   "While there were many fine initiatives laid out by the President, I want to specifically commend him for taking the lead to reform earmarks in Congressional spending bills. I don't believe Congress has done enough to end this wasteful practice, and the President's proposal to direct Executive agencies to not fund projects that are not voted on by Congress is a good start."
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 