SEN. KYL JOINS BUSH AT TUCSON BORDER BRIEFING
  Sen. Jon Kyl today joined President Bush at Arizona's Davis-Monthan Air Force Base for a briefing on border issues, and thanked the President "for coming to visit with the border patrol to get a firsthand report from the agents on the ground, and for reiterating his commitment that comprehensive immigration reform must include three core elements: a more secure border, enforcement of the law at interior jobsites, and a genuinely temporary guest worker program."  
   Kyl noted that Bush also restated his position that all participants in a guest worker program - including those formerly in the United States illegally - must return home at the end of their allotted time. "This is critical to both avoid the taint of amnesty for those who have broken the law, as well as preserve the flexibility of a guest worker program to fluctuate along with the needs of the U.S. economy," Kyl said. 
   In discussions with the President, along with Attorney General Alberto Gonzalez and Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff, Kyl raised two concerns he recently communicated to Chertoff in a letter also signed by senators John McCain, John Cornyn (R-TX) and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX). 
   "The just-passed Homeland Security Appropriations bill contains resources to end, once and for all, the frustrating practice of having to release non-Mexican detainees into the United States simply for lack of a place to keep them during processing for removal," Kyl said. "There's no excuse for not stopping this policy of 'catch-and-release' immediately. Also, it's important that law enforcement functions be streamlined so that Mexicans in the U.S. illegally can be returned home quickly regardless of where they are actually arrested." 
   The Homeland Security Appropriations bill's border and immigration provisions include funding for a host of initiatives that Kyl has long pushed for Arizona - from increased manpower to new infrastructure - as part of nearly $9 billion for securing the nation's borders.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 