SEN. KYL CALLS ON INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY TO CONFRONT IRANIAN NUCLEAR PROGRAM
  Sen. Jon Kyl today blasted Iran's resumption of construction on nuclear facilities and equipment, and called for "the international community of civilized nations to demonstrate - with more than words - that it's time for Iran to stop playing games, stop stalling for time, and abide by the commitments it has made to nuclear non-proliferation." 
   Noting that the United States has been roundly criticized for acting "unilaterally" in removing the threat of Saddam Hussein's regime in Iraq, Kyl added: "By contrast, we've taken exactly the kind of multilateral approach to dealing with Iran's nuclear program that critics from Europe to the Democratic Party have demanded, and thus far it's been an abysmal failure. Iran draws closer to offensive nuclear capability every day, and once they reach it, there will be no turning back. So now would be a good time for France and Germany and other Europeans who preach multilateralism to show that it can be effective by joining with the United States in taking tough action in response to Iran's violations."
   Kyl said the International Atomic Energy Agency's board of governors should formally refer the Iranian violations for action by the United Nations Security Council when the IAEA meets in September. "Despite Iran's multiple promises to stop pursuing nuclear weapons and reveal existing programs, the Inspector General of the IAEA reported in February that it continued to engage in deception regarding its nuclear activities and has cited continuing violations. It is time for the United Nations to consider all options, including diplomatic and economic sanctions. We must not allow Iran to become a nuclear state," Kyl said. "The threat posed by Iran extends far beyond its nuclear program. The problem is the regime itself."
   On July 22 the Senate approved a resolution co-sponsored by Kyl and Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) that expresses "the deep concern of Congress over the Islamic Republic of Iran's development of the means to produce nuclear weapons." The evidence unearthed by the 9/11 Commission on Iran's ties to al Qaeda "make the problem of the Iranian regime's clandestine nuclear weapons program all the more critical to resolve," Kyl said. A similar resolution passed the House in May.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 