SEN. KYL ANNOUNCES SENATE PASSAGE OF RESOLUTION ON DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
  Sen. Jon Kyl today announced the Senate's passage by unanimous consent of a resolution "Supporting the goals and ideals of National Domestic Violence Awareness Month [October] and expressing the sense of the Senate that Congress should raise awareness of domestic violence in the United States and its devastating effects on families."  
   "Our message in passing this resolution is aimed at both a national audience as well as every individual who is a victim of domestic violence or knows one," Kyl said. "That message is 'It's time to talk.' Seek help by talking about the problem with law enforcement, a counselor, a relative, or a friend. Don't suffer in silence." This year marks the tenth anniversary of the enactment of the Violence Against Women Act, the resolution notes, and although progress has been made on the problem, an average of more than 3 women are murdered by their husbands or boyfriends in the United States every day and someone in the United States is sexually assaulted every 2 minutes. 
   "This is an issue not only for today's generation of victims but for their children, nearly nine million of whom witness domestic violence every year and as a result face higher risks of long-term physical and mental health problems (including substance abuse), being a victim of abuse, and becoming a perpetrator of abuse," Kyl said. "A boy who witnesses his father's domestic violence is 10 times more likely to engage in domestic violence than a boy from a nonviolent home." 
   Kyl is the author of a Crime Victims' Rights Amendment supported by President Bush as well as 45 State Attorneys General of both parties, the International Association of Chiefs of Police, the International Union of Police Associations/AFL-CIO, Parents of Murdered Children (POMC) and the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. He is a board member of Arizona Voice for Crime Victims, which started and operates a free legal clinic at ASU College of Law, and has received numerous awards for his work in victims' rights.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 