SEN. KYL COMMENTS ON DEATH OF CORETTA SCOTT KING
  Sen. Jon Kyl today remembered Mrs. Coretta Scott King as "a steady force in the civil rights movement who ably supported the work of her late husband, the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Her legacy, like that of Dr. King, is steeped in the American principles we all hold dear: those of equality and justice, patriotism, faith, and family." 
   "As the world took notice of Dr. King's philosophy of nonviolent social change, Mrs. King spread it effectively, especially among women," said Kyl. "She lent her time and talents to numerous educational causes and civil rights groups. She exhibited poise, dignity, and grace in everything she did."
   Kyl joined in cosponsoring a resolution, S.Res. 362, honoring the life of Mrs. King and expressing the condolences of the Senate on her passing. The resolution passed the Senate by unanimous consent this afternoon.
   The full text of Senator Kyl's remarks honoring Mrs. King follows.
   Remarks on the passing of Mrs. Coretta Scott King By U.S. Senator Jon Kyl January 31, 2006
   Today I rise to pay tribute to the life of Mrs. Coretta Scott King. She was a steady force in the civil rights movement who ably supported the work of her late husband, the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Her legacy, like that of Dr. King, is steeped in the American principles we all hold dear: those of equality and justice, patriotism, faith, and family values.
   As a young woman, Coretta Scott, a native of Marion, Alabama, experienced the racism and prejudice that characterized the South at that time. She had a desire to exceed expectations in the most challenging of environments. Coretta was valedictorian of Lincoln High School in 1945 and pursued the serious study of music at Antioch College in Ohio, and then at the New England Conservatory of Music. It was in Boston that Coretta first met the young Martin King, a divinity student earning his doctorate in theology.
   Both of them knew the value of education and study, but both were also determined to serve others. Coretta had been involved in the civil rights movement before she met Dr. King; but when they joined forces as husband and wife in 1953, the movement was strengthened. Each place they lived in was roiled by the controversies of the movement to end racial segregation. In every place, bigots threatened the King family's safety. Amidst the violence, the arrests of peaceful protesters, the bombings and assassination attempts against her husband, Mrs. King remained a bedrock for her husband and the protector of her children. Yolanda, Martin III, Dexter, and Bernice found remarkable role models in both of their parents, but it was Mrs. King's steady hand that directed their upbringing.
   As the world took notice of Dr. King's philosophy of nonviolent social change, Mrs. King spread it effectively, especially among women. She lent her time and talents to numerous educational causes and civil rights groups. She exhibited poise, dignity, and grace in everything she did.
   Mrs. King's commitment to civil rights did not diminish in 1968 when her husband's life was ended by an assassin's bullet. She instead made a commitment to the nonviolent achievement of social justice as her life's work. The Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change in Atlanta, Georgia stands today as a testament to Dr. King's work and to that of his wife, for it was she who made the institution what it is. Mrs. King's strong will and courageous strength allowed her to stay the course and further the movement.
   She was also a strong force behind the national holiday to commemorate Dr. King's life.
   Coretta Scott King and the late Rosa Parks were often regarded as "Mothers of the Civil Rights Movement." We are sad to have lost both of them in so short a time. But as we enter Black History Month in February and then Women's History Month in March, the message and example of these American heroines will be before us. They demonstrate that ordinary people can achieve extraordinary things. Their selflessness will not be forgotten.
   May Mrs. Coretta Scott King find the peace for which she and Martin strived so hard to achieve. God speed.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 