GOOD NEWS, BAD NEWS ABOUT LOWERING PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
  By Sen. Jon Kyl
   For many Americans who rely on expensive prescription medications and have pinned their hopes on a movement to allow the importation of foreign drugs, two major recent federal studies brought both good news and bad news.  
   The bad news is that as much as consumers and activist groups had hoped otherwise, a new government regime capable of guaranteeing the safety and effectiveness of imported pharmaceuticals would cost so much to create and maintain that it would essentially negate any cost differential from lower (typically, government controlled) prices abroad. Any remaining savings would likely be captured by middlemen, like wholesalers and distributors, and not by end users. The good news is that American consumers have unparalleled access to an even more powerful - and reliable - means of lowering their costs: generic equivalents of high-cost name brand medications. And this resource has thus far been vastly underutilized. 
   Of course, it's also true that the new Medicare prescription drug benefit that takes effect in a year will provide important benefits for senior citizens and the disabled. In the meantime, and particularly for those who don't qualify for Medicare, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration maintains a website to help determine whether cheaper generics are a viable alternative for individual needs. And of course, one's doctor should be the first person to ask. 
   The great advantage of generic drugs is that they are already subject to the same stringent quality standards as their name-brand equivalents. By contrast, it is critical for consumers to realize - as documented conclusively in the studies by the U.S. Departments of Commerce and Health and Human Services (HHS) - that the individual importation of pharmaceuticals, via web-site, mail order or other means, is inherently unsafe. 
   It would simply be impossible for the federal government to monitor the infinite number of unscrupulous individuals who can - and already have - set up simple websites promising low prices but delivered placebos, tampered products and even toxic counterfeits. 
   A separate report, issued over the summer by the U.S. General Accounting Office (GAO), highlighted these risks. Significant problems were found with the handling and authenticity of many of the drugs supplied by 68 foreign web sites. Some lacked the necessary refrigeration. One shipment arrived in a box labeled "Gold Dye and Stain Remover Wax." Four were entirely counterfeit. Orders for Accutane, OxyContin and Viagra either had lower amounts of active ingredients or completely different chemical compositions than the real things, putting patients at serious risk. Fourteen of the sites were under investigation by various authorities. Not one outside of Canada provided labels with instructions or warnings about drug interactions or side effects. And there are no guarantees about "Canadian" web sites either: The drugs they sell to Americans can actually be from Iran, Argentina, South Africa, Brazil or anywhere else. The Canadian government has made clear that it accepts no responsibility for monitoring medicines not sold to its own citizens. The many other countries that impose government controls to force prescription drug prices below true market value dramatically reduce their citizens' access to the newest, most cutting-edge products. Few Americans would find this form of rationing acceptable, and such policies have driven virtually all pharmaceutical research - even by companies with foreign ownership - to the United States. 
   The fruits of this research save lives previously considered lost, and reduce the need for expensive medical procedures requiring hospitalization. The two new government reports confirm that importation would stifle robust pharmaceutical research and development on the next generation of life-saving drugs, and that the wiser course would be to do a better job of taking advantage of our unparalleled access to generic drugs in the United States.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 