SENATE APPROVES SEN. KYL AMENDMENT TO END 'ROYALTY HOLIDAY' FOR OIL COMPANIES
  The U.S. Senate approved an amendment late Thursday that will end the "royalty holiday" that oil companies currently receive and potentially add billions to the federal treasury. Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) authored the amendment, which was adopted into the Department of Defense Appropriations bill.  
   "We must ensure that taxpayers get a fair return on the energy resources being extracted from our public lands," said Kyl. 
   Kyl's amendment reforms the federal oil and gas leasing program and halts the unlimited exemption that companies can get from paying royalties for drilling on federal lands. The Secretary of Interior will be required to include price thresholds in all oil and gas lease terms that include royalty relief, thus ensuring payment of royalties when oil prices are moderate or high. The amendment reaffirms the authority to include thresholds in all leases issued between 1996 and 2000, thus rejecting the argument by some oil companies that the Secretary did not have the authority. Price threshold levels would be determined by the Secretary. 
   Royalty incentives were established in the Deep Water Royalty Relief Act of 1995 as a way to encourage development of new supplies of energy. At current prices, oil companies don't need extra incentives paid for out of taxpayers' pockets to develop more sources for their product. Although the royalty holiday provisions expired in 2001, they were extended and expanded in the Energy Policy Act of 2005 - over the objections of Kyl who voted against the energy bill. 
   Under the current leasing program, the federal government could lose billions in royalties from the oil companies. 
   "It is completely unnecessary to continue granting this exemption to the oil industry when gasoline and natural gas prices have skyrocketed and oil companies are earning record profits," said Kyl. "The resulting billions in new federal revenue from ending the royalty holiday can help fund research into promising new technologies." 
   The amendment is similar to a bill Kyl introduced earlier this year, The Royalty Relief Suspension Act of 2006. The Senate will resume consideration of the defense spending bill in September.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 