AN UNWAVERING COMMITMENT
  By Sen. Jon Kyl
   Our annual observance of Independence Day offers an important opportunity to reflect on the source of our rights and the sacrifice that has been made by Americans throughout our history to preserve them. The savage terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 clearly illustrated the vulnerability of our freedom and the fragility of those rights.  
   Today, the central battlefield in the War on Terror is Iraq. Our work there is far from over, but it is also true that great political and military progress has been made since the Coalition's removal of Saddam Hussein's regime. Just a year ago the Coalition Provisional Authority turned sovereignty over to the interim Iraqi Government, successful elections were held in January, and a new government is now running the country. 
   The training of Iraqi forces - the key to ensuring Iraq's long-term security - offers a good metaphor for what we have been able to accomplish. At the time of the handover in June 2004, the Iraqis had just one battalion; that number has now risen to more than 100. They are not all fully capable; but they are getting better every day. 
   It is important to recognize this progress while, at the same time, being candid about the difficulties that remain on both the political and security fronts. The President explained in his address to the nation last week many of the challenges we continue to face. There is no doubt that our men and women in uniform are courageously fighting a very determined enemy. Better there than here. 
   Victory in Iraq is key not only to the establishment of liberty for Iraqis, but for our own safety. It is also vital to the advancement of freedom throughout the Middle East region, which, in the long-run is our best hope for ending the threat of terrorism. That is why it should be of such serious concern that, according to some polls, public support for the war has begun to erode. 
   The enemy cannot defeat us on the battlefield; but as with any terrorist war, that isn't the enemy's intent. Their intent is to wear us down, undercut public support and work to get us to withdraw before our work is done. That's why the support of the American people is just as central to victory as is the success of our troops on the ground. 
   Think about the consequences of a U.S. pullout from Iraq before Iraqi troops can secure the country. If the country fell, would Saddam Hussein be returned to power? Could there be any more ignominious loss to the U.S. and our allies? To the people of Iraq? To democracy in the Middle East? U.S. credibility would be destroyed. 
   Any chance of further cooperation from countries in the region in the War on Terror would go up in smoke. And regimes on which we count, like Pakistan, could be the next to be undermined. 
   In short, it is unthinkable for us not to see it through. 
   If we leave before our job is done, it will be hard to argue that the sacrifice of our young men and women has not been in vain. That would be the most unacceptable result of all.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 