SEN. KYL TELLS SENATE: ?IT'S TIME TO TALK ABOUT DOMESTIC VIOLENCE'
  Noting that the Senate last week unanimously passed a resolution "supporting the goals and ideals of National Domestic Violence Awareness Month" in October, Sen. Jon Kyl today sent "a message to every individual who is a victim of domestic violence or knows one. That message is 'It's time to talk'."  
   Joined on the Senate floor by Majority Leader Bill Frist and Minority Leader Tom Daschle, Kyl said, "Victims of domestic violence must seek help by talking about the problem with law enforcement, a counselor, a relative, or a friend. Don't suffer in silence. 
   "It is not just the victims of domestic violence who should talk about the issue, it is society as a whole," Kyl added. "Although some progress has been made, there is still a serious problem. As the resolution notes, an average of more than 3 women are murdered by their husbands or boyfriends in the United States every day and someone in the United States is sexually assaulted every 2 minutes. In 2002 alone, 250,000 women and girls older than the age of 12 were raped or sexually assaulted." 
   In addition to the devastating emotional, physical, and psychological harm to victims of domestic violence, "there are also staggering costs to society as a whole," Kyl said. As noted in the Senate resolution, the cost of domestic violence, including rape, physical assault, and stalking, exceeds $5.8 billion each year, of which $4.1 billion is spent on direct medical and mental health care services. 
   In Arizona alone, 81 of the 440 homicides reported in the year 2003 were a result of domestic and/or dating violence, according to the Arizona Coalition Against Domestic Violence. In 2002, every five minutes police responded to a call involving domestic violence, making an arrest every 19 minutes. 
   "I have toured and dedicated city centers for family violence victims in Mesa, Glendale, and Scottsdale. I have raised money and dedicated sites for Autumn House Domestic Violence Shelter, Chrysalis Shelter, the Center Against Sexual Abuse, ChildHelp USA, and the Sexual Assault Recovery Institute. This work has made me personally and acutely aware of the hardships suffered by domestic violence victims, as well as of the hard work of those who help to meet their needs," Kyl said. "It is fitting that we officially dedicate a month to focus on raising awareness of this national tragedy."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 