FRONT LINES OF WAR ON TERROR
  For the past several weeks, our television screens have been dominated by images of violence in the Middle East. As this conflict continues to generate compelling pictures of human suffering, it is important for Israel's allies and, indeed, for all of those opposed to terrorism, to speak with one voice. We can, and should, feel sympathy for the innocent victims of this conflict in both Lebanon and Israel. However, we must not forget the origins of this conflict or what is at stake. 
   Our Israeli ally is fighting unprovoked aggression by terrorists on its border. Before Hezbollah attacked, Israel simply wanted to be left in peace within its internationally recognized borders, and to allow the same for Lebanon. All Israeli forces left Lebanese territory in 2000, and the United Nations recognized this withdrawal as fully compliant with all relevant Security Council resolutions. The Lebanese government, unfortunately, was either unable, or unwilling, to prevent the continued expansion of Hezbollah power in Southern Lebanon.  
   Some have argued that America loses too much "world support" when it continues to support Israel. These critics insist that the role of the United States should be to push Israel toward accommodation with terrorists even though they are bent on the country's destruction. I believe this conflict exposes the utter fallacy of that perspective. Israel is under assault, not just from Hezbollah and Hamas, but from Iran and Syria, the two most active state sponsors of global terrorism. Right now the United States is struggling with these same countries - over their unproductive actions in Iraq, their WMD programs, and their role in financing and equipping terrorists worldwide. 
   Both Israel and the U.S. are bound in a struggle against radical Islamists and their sponsors. Hezbollah did not initiate this war out of concern for the interests of the Palestinian or Lebanese people. It is part of a broader, state-sponsored jihad against Western civilization - a war in which we cannot afford to waver. The U.S. Senate, in passing a resolution condemning Hezbollah, sent a clear signal that America is committed to standing by our Israeli allies as they fight on the front lines of the war against terrorism. 
   Many in the international community have urged "restraint" on the part of Israel in facing this crisis. In international relations, restraint is generally a good thing. In war it is not. In fact, it can lead to defeat. Israeli restraint and forbearance should only be given in response to action by the other side. No other sovereign nation would tolerate the kinds of incursions that Israel has endured. And, as Secretary of State Rice has repeatedly made clear, the U.S. is not going to urge a premature ceasefire - one which would only postpone the next violent attack by Hezbollah after it had an opportunity to regroup and rearm. 
   I am also dubious about a "peacekeeping" force - the "peacekeepers" in Lebanon weren't able to prevent the huge arms buildup or fortifications built by Hezbollah, so it's hard to imagine they would actually try to intervene in armed conflict with terrorists. Peace cannot merely be wished into existence. Lasting peace can only come when the source of the instability - in this case, state-sponsored terrorism - is eliminated. I see no evidence that the international community is willing to do the hard work necessary to end this threat, and so Israel must act on its own. 
   The solution to this crisis will not be easy, but the first step is for Hezbollah to be fully and verifiably disarmed. It may be too much to expect the international community to pressure Iran and Syria to stop supporting their terrorist proxy armies. But the U.S. position should be clear: Israel shouldn't be pressured to stop its action until it has neutralized Hezbollah in Southern Lebanon; and other countries must help the government of Lebanon dismantle the Hezbollah infrastructure that threatens Northern Israel.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 