SEN. KYL HAILS TAX RELIEF AGREEMENT
  The conference committee today reached final agreement on H.R. 4297, the Tax Relief Extension Reconciliation Act of 2005. Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) hailed today's agreement as a "great day for the economy and American taxpayer." Kyl, along with Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-IA), were the only two Republican Senate members of the conference committee. 
   Kyl was instrumental in securing an extension of the lower rates for capital gains and dividends in this agreement. The package specifically extends the lower tax rates for capital gains and dividends for two more years, through 2010. Lower income taxpayers will have capital gains and dividends taxed at a five percent rate through 2007, and the tax will be eliminated for lower income American families completely by 2008-2010. In Arizona alone, of the 315,000 taxpayers reporting taxable dividends in 2003 (the last year data is available), nearly three-quarters had household incomes less than $100,000, and more than a third less than $50,000.
   "Today is a great day for the economy and American taxpayer," said Kyl. "The successes we enjoy in today's economy are in large part the result of the tax policies we implemented back in 2003. Government estimators had predicted that the reduction in capital gains rates enacted in 2003 would cost the federal government $27 billion in lost revenues for 2004, but the Congressional Budget Office now reports that the lower rates actually brought in an additional $26 billion in revenue. Extending the current tax rates for capital gains and dividends will help ensure our economy will continue to grow."
   "Not only has the dividend tax relief spurred economic growth, but it is also very important for American senior citizens," said Kyl. "Seniors in all income categories rely on dividend income in their retirement plans, but the benefits for lower and middle income seniors are particularly impressive - seniors with incomes under $50,000 in 2008 will see their tax bills cut by more than 17 percent."
   Kyl has long championed tax relief for families. As chairman of the Senate Finance Subcommittee on Taxation and IRS Oversight, he has pushed for repeal of the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) for individuals, and was key to extension of the AMT "patch" through the end of 2006 in this package.
   "For the taxpayer, the AMT embodies the worst attributes of a tax system - it is unfair, complex, and counteracts overall economic growth," said Kyl. "The AMT was intended to prevent the highest-income earners from avoiding taxes, but with our growing economy, it now captures an increasing number of middle-class families making modest incomes. While I am pleased an extension is included in this package, I will continue working for permanent relief for American families."
   The House is expected to vote on the final conference report Wednesday. The Senate is expected to take a final vote on Thursday.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 