SEN. KYL ISSUES STATEMENT ON PEPFAR REAUTHORIZATION
  The Senate Foreign Relations Committee today considered legislation to reauthorize the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). The program was first created in 2003, and provided $15 billion over five years to the cause of AIDS relief in parts of the world ravaged by that disease. Senate Republican Whip Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) released the following statement: 
   "PEPFAR was a demonstration of the American people's desire to help those in need. The 2003 legislation was also a demonstration of the American people's desire that their generosity not be wasted, as they have seen before with so many other aid programs. To that end, the legislation required that the lion's share of the funds be devoted to treatment of patients in need.
   "It is therefore mind-boggling to me that recent reauthorization proposals - the bill passed by the House Foreign Affairs Committee last week and the bill considered by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee today - would take such giant steps backward.
   "Among its many flaws, the House proposal removes the requirement that organizations that receive PEPFAR grants be opposed to prostitution and sex trafficking. The Senate proposal waters down the 'conscience clause,' which protects humanitarian and medical professionals involved in these programs from having to participate in prevention and treatment methods that they find morally or religiously objectionable.
   "What's most troubling with both the House and Senate proposals is that they remove a requirement - on a program dedicated to AIDS relief - that at least fifty-five percent of the funds in the program be spent on treatment of AIDS patients. This provision was an important check on bureaucratic wastefulness. And after removing this requirement, both proposals then triple the amount appropriated to $50 billion!
   "The goal of PEPFAR is important, but our annual foreign aid budget is not limitless. Congress is beginning the annual budget cycle and we are confronted daily with requests for more and more federal spending. Agreeing to this massive increase is p not the way to discipline what is already shaping up to be a budget train wreck.
   "I supported the creation of PEPFAR in 2003. And I could reluctantly support doubling that amount over the next five years. But adding another $20 billion on top of that is too much. We cannot lose sight of the sacrifices of millions of Americans who work hard and pay the taxes that support these programs. I cannot support a bill that so dramatically spends beyond what we can afford and so wantonly ignores accountability and transparency tools that safeguard the generosity of the American people."
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 