SEN. KYL CALLS FOR GREATER FEDERAL RESOURCES TO COMBAT ARIZONA FIRES
  Sen. Jon Kyl today sent a letter to Mark Rey, U.S. Department of Agriculture Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment, urging that resources for wildfire preparedness and suppression in the Southwest be reviewed and reallocated given the recent "February" fire that is ravaging over 4,000 acres of forest near Payson, Arizona. New Mexico Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the Senate's Energy and Natural Resources Committee, joined Kyl in sending the letter.
   "The Southwest is seeing its driest winter on record," said Kyl. "Wildfire season, which typically begins in May, has already started. I am afraid that Arizona could face the longest and most costly fire season in state history." 
   In the letter sent to Mr. Rey, Sens. Kyl and Domenici specifically ask that the administration accelerate NEPA-ready forest thinning projects in Arizona and New Mexico and make available now the necessary firefighting assets needed to combat wildfires this season.
   "Budgets and resource allocations are determined at least a year in advance," said Kyl. "And as the Northwest region of the country is seeing record-breaking rain levels, while the Southwest region is seeing record dryness and an early wildfire season, I strongly ask the administration reconsider how our national wildfire preparedness and suppression resources be allocated."
   The President's 2007 budget proposal cuts fire preparedness by $10 million and other fire operations by nearly 36 percent, while placing significant emphasis on implementation of the Northwest Forest Plan. The Forest Service plans to spend $182 million on implementation spread across several accounts including hazardous fuels, vegetation and watershed management and forest products. These projects mark an increase of $66 million for the Northwest Forest Plan over fiscal year 2006.
   Text of the letter can be found below.
   February 14, 2006
   The Honorable Mark E. Rey Undersecretary Natural Resources and Environment U.S. Department of Agriculture Washington, DC 20250
   Dear Mr. Rey:
   The Southwest's intensifying drought and higher than normal temperatures, together with unnatural accumulations of hazardous fuels, conspire to create the conditions for a devastating wildfire season that could be the longest and most costly in our states' histories.
   Although it is early in the year, Arizona unfortunately has its first fire of the season. The "February" fire, burning north of Payson on the Tonto National Forest, is over 4,000 acres and will cost the Forest Service an estimated $3 million to successfully suppress.
   We are afraid that this fire is a sign of things to come in our region. Yet past budgets and the budget the administration has put forth for fiscal year 2007 have targeted the Pacific Northwest, and specifically implementation of the Northwest Forest Plan. While offering a sustainable level of timber and protecting the long-term health of these forests is important, the Northwest is not experiencing the severe conditions being seen in the Southwest. It is crucial that Arizona and New Mexico have: 1) the resources needed to perform thinning that will prevent fires and 2) the firefighting assets to catch them on initial attack. This will reduce the wildfire risk to our communities and the surrounding landscapes.
   We understand that budgets and resource allocations are crafted at least a year in advance. However, only the current conditions on the ground can dictate priorities. We urge you to take every feasible measure to accelerate NEPA-ready forest thinning projects in our states and to make available now the necessary firefighting assets that we need to combat the wildfires we know are coming.
   Sincerely,
   JON KYL United States Senator
   PETE DOMENICI United States Senator
   Contact: Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705; Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-2206.
 
 