SEN. KYL URGES SENATE TO ?THINK TWICE' ABOUT DRUG IMPORTATION AFTER GIULIANI TESTIMONY
  Following testimony by former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani and representatives of the U.S. Food & Drug Administration on the danger of re-importation of prescription drugs, Sen. Jon Kyl today urged the Senate to "think twice, despite the political passions of the moment, about the implications of tampering with the safety of our national prescription drug supply." 
   Giuliani, whose firm has completed a major study of drug importation from foreign sources into the United States, told the Senate Judiciary Committee that the existing American pharmaceutical system is already vulnerable to significant exploitation of counterfeit, diluted or adulterated drugs entering the United States and that re-importation of drugs from Canada may only exacerbate the problem.
   Among other findings, the Giuliani study found that: the FDA and U.S. Customs and Border Protection are short staffed and ill-equipped to randomly inspect the massive volume of incoming packages of drug products; corrupt secondary wholesalers compromise product quality in the drug supply; and that some patients purchasing re-imported Canadian medicines, particularly via the Internet, are receiving non-FDA approved drug manufactured in foreign countries, such as Pakistan, China, Iran and Singapore, that are frequently past their expiration date, sub-potent or more potent than indicated, wrongly dosed, contaminated or counterfeited, or not properly stored or shipped.
   Canada has a system of regulatory controls over its medicine supply, Giuliani noted, but does not inspect those medicines being imported into Canada and then exported into the United States.
   "One of the purposes of last year's Medicare reform," Kyl said, "was to provide for and reduce the price of prescription drugs, beginning with the drug discount cards that reduce drug prices by an average of 10-25 percent. Since most of the provisions of the law have not even take effect yet, Congress should be very cautious about allowing a flood of unregulated pharmaceuticals to come pouring in to the United States, many of which will be bogus and some even deadly."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 