SEN. KYL PRAISES COMMITTEE VOTE ON MAJOR ARIZONA WATER SETTLEMENT
  Sen. Jon Kyl applauded the Senate Energy and Commerce Committee's unanimous approval of legislation today that would settle claims over Indian water rights and allow the U.S. and Arizona to settle repayments owed to the federal government for construction of the Central Arizona Project (CAP).  
   "This vote moves us within reach of a settlement that would benefit all of the literally dozens of parties that have been negotiating and litigating various disagreements for 15 years," said Kyl who has helped lead the complex and painstaking process. "Time is short, but unanimous committee approval is a clear sign that this bill is worthy of taking to the floor for a vote - and being signed into law." 
   The settlement would bring long-sought certainty to cities and communities as they plan their growth and development, as well as provide a means for Indian tribes to actually use water rights that thus far exist only on paper. It is a major component of a long-term water plan for Arizona, and would also resolve a long-running dispute between the state and the federal government over nearly $2 billion in repayments for construction of the Central Arizona Project" (CAP). 
   The "Arizona Water Settlements Act" (S. 437), co-sponsored with Senator John McCain, is divided into three titles. The first resolves the repayment issue and the allocation of CAP water between state and federal interests and creates a funding mechanism for current and future Indian water settlements. The second resolves claims by the Gila River Indian Community, and the third amends the 1982 "Southern Arizona Water Rights Settlement Act," resolving claims by the Tohono O'odham Nation. Companion legislation has been introduced in the House by U.S. Rep. J.D. Hayworth (R-AZ). 
   "The water users and providers of Arizona have waited a long time for this day. Virtually every major water user and provider in central Arizona has devoted itself to the passage of this bill," Kyl said. "Looking ahead, this bill could ultimately be nearly as important to Arizona's future as was the authorization of the Central Arizona Project itself.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 