SEN. KYL HIGHLIGHTS UNFINISHED WORK ON BORDER SECURITY AT COMMERCE COMMITTEE HEARING
  Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ), today testified before the Senate Commerce Committee 
  that while improvements have been made to the illegal immigration crisis in Arizona, much remains to be done along its 361-mile border with Mexico and in the state's interior. 
   Kyl, who chairs the Senate Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Terrorism, Technology, and Homeland Security, called for a two-pronged approach:
   1) Increased border and interior manpower and technology, and 
   2) Better enforcement of U.S. immigration laws.
   "As is the case in many areas around the country, Arizona's border and its interior need additional technology and equipment," Kyl said. "Although the state has received increasing levels of both over the past seven years, it is not enough. More illegal immigrants cross the Arizona border than in any other state or sector in the U.S., and there's no relief in sight."
   Kyl commended McCain for holding the hearing to focus attention on border issues, and for introducing the Border Infrastructure and Technology Integration Act of 2004 (of which Kyl is a co-sponsor), which would require a pilot program on aerial surveillance technology as well as studies of the technology and personnel needed by Customs and the Border Patrol and optimal Border Patrol strength required to secure both the northern and southern borders. In particular, Kyl expressed support for the inclusion of a provision he requested requiring a report on the amount of time it takes for federal law-enforcement agencies to respond to calls for help from state and local law-enforcement officers.
   Kyl also pressed for full implementation of the US-Visit entry-exit program, and for adding machines at ports of entry, both of which have fallen well behind schedule.
   Kyl's amendment to 1996 immigration legislation required that 1,000 additional Border Patrol agents be hired each year between 1997 and 2001, and the agency now has around 11,000 agents. He has also authored numerous provisions that have resulted in more than $200 million in funding for new Customs inspectors and equipment. "Border Patrol and Customs agents must have new X-ray machines capable of detecting illegal drugs and weapons of mass destruction, and other high-tech tools, if they're going to do their job of protecting the country."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/ 224-7705.
 
 