IN SERVICE TO OUR NATION
  Over the past few years the world has witnessed the skill, discipline, and compassion of America's servicemen and women, as they simultaneously battle Islamic extremists and help to rebuild the shattered societies of Iraq and Afghanistan. 
   Since the brilliant campaigns to remove Saddam Hussein and topple the Taliban, our troops have doggedly battled ruthless insurgencies that have no agenda other than to prevent the emergence of modern freedom and democracy. With their hard work and sacrifice, steady progress has been made in reversing the fortunes of some of the most abused and downtrodden people on earth.  
   This is the brave and spirited institution, the United States military, that hundreds of young Arizonans apply every year to help lead through admission to our nation's service academies. As a United States Senator, I have the great privilege of nominating some of Arizona=s finest students for the following year's entering class. Anticipating the interests of many young people, I schedule informational conferences in Arizona where students can talk to representatives from all of the academies firsthand about the challenges and benefits of admission. This year's will be on April 30, in Glendale and Flagstaff. More detailed information is below. 
   As we approach this year's October 9 application deadline for those seeking to be nominated by my office for the 2004 entering class, I thought it would be helpful to outline the application process and encourage interested young Arizonans to apply for this opportunity to serve their nation and get a great education. 
   Members of Congress can nominate as many as 10 candidates for each academy vacancy. Only one of their nominees is guaranteed an offer of admission by the academy, however. The others enter a nationwide pool of candidates, competing with students from other states for additional openings. The selection process is highly competitive. Students may first apply for a congressional nomination in their junior year of high school - and I strongly encourage interested candidates to apply to as many nominating sources as possible, including both of their U.S. Senators and their representative in Congress. All candidates must be U.S. citizens, and between the ages of 17 and 22 (17-24 for the Merchant Marines) as of July 1 of the year they would enter the academy. Students applying to my office also must be permanent residents of Arizona or, if they are younger than 18, their parents must be permanent state residents. Candidates are also required to open files with their desired service academies. 
   Candidates who open files with my office in Phoenix must provide a small photo, a completed application form, an official high school transcript indicating a cumulative Grade Point Average and class rank, and other materials required in the application packet. Those students who meet minimal qualifications will then be selected for a personal interview with my Academy Screening Committee. This usually occurs in early to mid-November. 
   Often students and their parents ask me what qualifications might increase their chances of selection. Candidates should have a proven record of achievement in academics, athletics, extracurricular and leadership activities. A strong background in math and science is also helpful. I also recommend that students take the SAT and/or ACT tests as early and often as possible B since the academy only considers the highest scores received in each category (Math and Verbal) regardless of when that score was achieved. 
   The service academies are among the most selective colleges in the nation. They have graduated U.S. Presidents, astronauts, business leaders and members of Congress. Whether a student is committed to a military career or not, the service academies provide an unmatched educational opportunity. I encourage all Arizonans interested in learning more about the application process B or in attending my annual informational meeting - to contact my office in Phoenix at (602) 840-1891 or Tucson at (520) 575-8633 or to visit my web site.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 