SEN. KYL VOTES TO PRESERVE STEM-CELL RESEARCH POLICY
  Consistent with his long-held position favoring a broad strategy to advance responsible medical technologies and research, Sen. Jon Kyl (R-AZ) today voted to preserve the current policy governing the public funding of Embryonic Stem Cell Research. 
   "Prior to the enactment of this policy in 2001, no federal funding had been devoted to Embryonic Stem Cell Research," said Kyl. "In the five years subsequent to its enactment, more than $90 million has been provided for embryonic stem-cell research." 
   Kyl voted to maintain the policy that allows for federal funding from the National Institutes for Health for experiments using stem cells already extracted from embryos, and bars taxpayer money from being used as an incentive for the destruction of human embryos.  
   Kyl also emphasized that federal law imposes no prohibitions on what private companies and state governments may undertake and noted one recent estimate offered by a supporter of federal embryonic stem cell research, who found that "there is nearly $4 billion in private and state monies committed to stem-cell research over the next decade, with another three-quarters of a billion dollars under active consideration." 
   "I believe the best way forward with respect to taxpayer funds, is to adequately support responsible stem cell research without having to destroy human embryos," said Kyl. 
   Kyl also voted in favor of separate legislation, the Fetus Farming Prohibition Act, which prohibits the solicitation or acceptance of tissue from human fetuses gestated and aborted solely for research purposes. 
   An in-depth analysis and breakdown of today's vote is below. 
   BACKGROUND REGARDING JULY 18, 2006 BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH VOTES: 
   STEM CELLS - ADULT AND EMBRYONIC 
   The catch-all term "stem cell research" is frequently used to describe a number of different types of experimentation, but there are some significant distinctions that it is necessary to keep in mind. 
   While most human or animal cells are capable of performing just one biological function, stem cells are not "programmed" for any specialized function. Rather, they are capable of being "programmed" to perform the functions of some or all of the more than 200 different cell types in the body. 
   Scientists have derived stem cells from two sources: Those extracted from the organs of adults are known as "adult stem cells" and those extracted from pre-implantation human embryos - through a process that destroys the embryo - are known as "embryonic stem cells." Embryonic stem cells are understood to have a remarkable "pluripotency," a term describing their capacity to be coaxed by scientists to execute a wide variety of biological functions. While there are some exciting possibilities, scientists disagree about the extent to which stem cells can be induced to perform the functions of cell types other than those of tissue from which they originate. 
   Last year, the Council on Bioethics - a panel of scientists and ethicists representing a wide range of viewpoints and charged with examining the challenges and opportunities posed by technological developments - released a White Paper detailing a number of promising potential "Alternative Sources of Pluripotent Stem Cells," that is, possible avenues for obtaining stem cells just as versatile as those derived by destroying human embryos. 
   "The good news for all sides is that over the course of this long argument, researchers have learned more about how stem cells work, and the science has outrun the politics. Adult cells, such as those found in bone marrow, were thought to be less valuable than embryonic cells, which are 'pluripotent' master cells that can turn into anything from a brain cell to a toenail. But adult cells may be more elastic than scientists thought, and could offer shortcuts to treatment that embryonic cells can't match." (Nancy Gibbs, Alice Park, Mike Allen, and Massimo Calabresi, "What A Bush Veto Would Mean For Stem Cells," TIME, 7/24/06) 
   In the past three decades, adult stem cell research has led to the development and approval of treatments for a number of conditions. Recently, Congress has passed legislation to spur additional advances by establishing infrastructure to facilitate the collection and dissemination to researchers of two of the most promising categories of adult stem cells, those derived from bone marrow and umbilical cord blood. 
   To date, embryonic stem cell research has yet to yield any treatments for human patients. 
   CURRENT LAW AND POLICY REGARDING PERMISSIBILITY AND TAXPAYER FUNDING OF STEM CELL RESEARCH 
   Federal law imposes no substantial restrictions on any category of stem cell research (and no one in Congress has proposed this); nor does it prevent private groups or state or local governments from conducting and subsidizing such research. (And none of the measures passed by the Senate today would change this.) 
   As a result, significant resources have been directed toward these purposes in the past few years. For instance, California voters have approved a ballot measure authorizing the issuance of $3 billion in bonds to finance this type of stem cell research over ten years. One recent estimate offered by a supporter of loosening federal embryonic stem cell restrictions suggested that "there is nearly $4 billion in private and state monies committed to stem-cell research over the next decade, with another three-quarters of a billion dollars under active consideration." 
   Moreover, the federal government, through the National Institutes of Health has directed significant public funding to adult stem cell research ($190 million last year alone), and, since the policy President Bush announced on August 9, 2001 went into effect, embryonic stem cell research (more than $90 million). 
   The 2001 policy authorized federal subsidy of embryonic stem cell research employing stem cell lines derived by that date. In keeping with the long-standing principle that federal tax dollars should not be used to promote or encourage the destruction of what millions of American taxpayers believe to be nascent human life, the policy made experiments on stem cell lines derived subsequent to that date ineligible for federal subsidy. NIH has also created the National Embryonic Stem Cell Bank to facilitate the dissemination of embryonic stem cells to scientists. To date, scientists have requested and received more than 700 shipments of embryonic stem cells through that clearinghouse. 
   TODAY'S VOTES 
   Against this background, the Senate today considered three bills aimed in various ways at responding to developments in this area. 
   Senator Kyl voted for the Fetus Farming Prohibition Act, legislation that would prohibit the solicitation or acceptance of tissue from human fetuses gestated and aborted solely for research purposes. 
   Senator Kyl also voted for the Alternative Pluripotent Stem Cell Therapies Enhancement Act, a measure crafted with the findings of the Bioethics Council's 2005 report in mind. This bill will intensify federal oversight for - and support of - efforts to produce stem cells possessing the degree of versatility or pluripotency that characterizes embryonic stem cells without destroying human embryos. 
   Finally, Senator Kyl voted against the bill entitled the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act, which would compel taxpayers to support the destruction of human embryos, nullifying the carefully balanced ethical compromise underlying the current policy. That existing law enabled all types of stem cell research to continue and increase - but limited the federal subsidy for embryonic stem cell research to an ethical framework that respects Americans' deeply held and diverse sentiments regarding the treatment of embryonic human beings.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 