IF I WERE THE ONLY ONE WRITING THIS BILL, IT WOULD BE VERY DIFFERENT
  Americans are frustrated because our government has failed to live up to its responsibility to control our borders and stop the flow of illegal immigration. 
   Since the current immigration bill was pulled off the Senate schedule a week ago, at least 50,000 new illegal immigrants have crossed over our borders. Every day the situation continues to get worse and something has to be done about it. 
   The immigration bill being considered in the Senate is far from perfect. If I were the only one writing this bill, it would be very different. But it is the first strong, bipartisan consensus for enforcing our laws and securing the border.  
   Much of the existing law, enacted in 1986, is unenforceable - especially the requirement that employers verify eligibility for employment. To cite just one problem, employers have to rely on documents that are easily counterfeited. So it is not enough just to say "enforce the law" - existing law needs to be strengthened. 
   Some argue that no bill is better than this immigration bill. That's a hard argument to make when illegal immigrants (over 10 percent serious criminals) continue to pour across our borders, burdening our schools, hospitals, and judicial systems, and crime and violence are rampant, not to mention the national security threat posed by a border porous enough for terrorists to sneak across. 
   On June 7, Democratic Leader Harry Reid moved to end debate on the bill. Some senators complained that they still had amendments to be considered and I supported their right to offer more amendments. Unfortunately, rather than work with senators to find a way to complete work on the bill, the Democratic Leader yanked the bill from the floor and scheduled a politically motivated "no confidence" vote on the U.S. Attorney General. 
   Some prematurely cheered the demise of the immigration bill. But supporters of the bill asked the Democratic Leader give it a few more days so everyone can have their say and complete action on the bill by the end of the month - and he has agreed to do so. 
   I am well aware of the opposition to the bill (from both the left and the right). Actually, I agree with those who are expressing their frustration with a government that has let them down by not being willing or able to enforce immigration laws. The number one concern they have expressed to me is their fear that a new law will not be enforced, and I have been concerned about that too. 
   While I cannot guarantee that a new law will be adequately enforced, I do know that we have written it with the lessons of the past in mind. It is tougher, more enforceable, and is adequately funded. In fact, in response to many of my constituents, I have helped write a tough enforcement amendment; and the bill will now include a provision pre-funding the costs of all of the enforcement provisions. This way, the bill will not be dependent on future appropriations from Congress. 
   Most observers have said that if this bill can't pass, the political reality is that there will be no immigration reform for at least two years because of the upcoming presidential election. That would represent yet another failure of government. We have a second, and perhaps last, chance to pass an immigration bill. With due respect to those who disagree with me, here's why - greatly summarized - I think we should pass the bill: 
   (1) The status quo is not defensible; 
   (2) The situation continues to deteriorate; 
   (3) Existing workplace verification requirements and other laws can't be properly enforced; 
   (4) Without bipartisan cooperation, the law cannot be changed; 
   (5) A consensus requires concessions on both sides, so neither side will be totally happy; 
   (6) This bill is tougher and more enforceable than past law and has automatic funding for enforcement in it; 
   (7) There is no substitute proposal that can garner enough votes to pass; and 
   (8) From my perspective, given the good things in the bill and the deteriorating status quo, passing this bill is better than doing nothing.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 