SEN. KYL URGES QUICK RELEASE OF CHINESE DISSIDENT PASSING 1000TH DAY IN PRISON
  Sen. Jon Kyl today released the following statement at a press conference commemorating the 1000th day of detention of permanent U.S. resident Dr. Yang Jianli and calling for Dr. Yang to be immediately granted medical parole.  
   "I regret that I cannot join you in commemorating Yang Jianli's 1000th day in prison. It goes without saying that this is a very sad day for Dr. Yang and his family. My heart goes out to them. 
   At the same time, it is my hope that today will mark a new beginning. The Chinese government has an opportunity in this case to demonstrate both good will and a new commitment to the rule of law. 
   Thus far, the handling of this case has been a tragic - but, unfortunately, hardly isolated - example of Beijing's continuing failure to abide by internationally accepted norms of behavior in a broad range of areas, from basic democracy to economic modernization. 
   It's now been more than four years since Congress voted to grant China permanent normal trade relations status, under the theory that economic engagement would accelerate the pace of that country's domestic political reforms. That theory hasn't panned out. Indeed, the U.S.-China relationship remains as much of a challenge as it was in 1999. 
   Even so, I am concerned that there may be an increasing willingness to turn a blind eye toward China's bad behavior in exchange for ostensible "help" on issues like North Korea and the war on terror. China's assistance is of course welcome, but it should not come at the expense of human rights, the welfare of Taiwan, democracy in Hong Kong, efforts to halt weapons proliferation by Chinese state-run companies, or the overall health of our economic relationship. 
   Likewise, it has been reported that the European Union is considering lifting its arms embargo against Beijing, which was imposed following the Tiananmen Massacre. But the conditions that prompted the embargo have not changed - one need look no further than the imprisonment of Yang Jianli for evidence. 
   Which makes his release all the more important. I fervently hope China's leaders will take advantage of this opportunity to begin moving in the right direction, for the sake Dr. Yang and his family, the progress of their nation, and, quite frankly, the bilateral relationship between our two countries. 
   The United Nations has made clear that Yang Jianli's imprisonment is in violation of international law. The U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have unanimously called for his release. Numerous letters on his behalf have been sent to the Chinese government by Members of Congress, Dr. Yang's colleagues, and others. And Yang Jianli's wife, Christina, has worked tirelessly, with great strength and grace, on behalf of her husband. 
   The situation is more urgent than ever, of course, because of the stroke that Yang Jianli suffered over the summer. Even under China's legal system, he is now eligible for parole, and I strongly urge his immediate release on humanitarian grounds. I can declare with confidence that we will continue to press the case until Yang Jianli is home."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 