DEFENDING TRADITIONAL MARRIAGE: UNFORTUNATE NECESSITY
  Last week's Senate vote against a motion to even begin debate upon, much less approve, a constitutional amendment on marriage dealt a serious setback to our society's most stabilizing and important institution. It also represents a failure of the Senate to accept our responsibility as legislators to begin to deal with the issue rather than leaving it to activist lawyers and judges, who are more than happy to fill the void. 
   A marriage between a man and a woman is universally acknowledged to provide the best and healthiest environment for raising children. It's hard to imagine a more fundamental societal issue, or one more deserving of protection, particularly in this era of high rates of teen pregnancy, divorce, and other signs of social breakdown. Growing up in a traditional family has overwhelmingly been found to give kids the best shot at success in school, career and in starting their own families.
   Some say we should not deal with the problem nationally, but leave it to the states. As a nation, we've already grappled with this question and resolved it - with broad consensus - in the debate over whether to admit Utah as a state, when Congress required Utah to recognize only marriages between one man and one woman. Moreover, "states' rights" means decisions by the people of the states and their legislatures - not by judges.
   To the extent that the traditional definition of marriage should be reconsidered at all - despite the wisdom and tradition of virtually all of human history - that process should take place within the realm of legislatures or citizens working directly through the ballot or initiative process. Judges, egged on by activist lawyers, have no business inventing imaginary provisions in state constitutions, denouncing traditional marriage as a "stain" that must be washed away, or scoffing at the "mantra of tradition," all of which was part of the recent decision by the Massachusetts Supreme Court. Were it not for their lack of judicial restraint, we wouldn't have arrived at the unfortunate point of having to consider a Constitutional Amendment to begin with.
   Nor is it realistic to assume that same-sex marriage can be isolated in some states but not others, even if one finds such a goal acceptable. The groups pushing to redefine marriage certainly know this; The most prominent leader of the same-sex marriage movement, Evan Wolfson, who helped file the lawsuits in Vermont, Massachusetts and elsewhere, has candidly made the point. He scoffs at those who think that the nation can tolerate fundamentally different conceptions of marriage on a state-by-state basis. As he says on his website, "America is one country, not 50 separate kingdoms. If you're married, you're married." Some believe Congress should wait for the courts to declare the federal Defense of Marriage Act unconstitutional. The problem is, whether it's upheld or not, that law didn't stop Massachusetts' Supreme Court, and it won't stop other judges sympathetic to activist groups that are already seeking to bypass the legislative process and impose their agenda in more than 11 states. Even assuming the Defense of Marriage Act survives review by the U.S. Supreme Court, which is by no means a given, simple logistics make it unavoidable that states will be forced to contend with the policies of other states in everything from marriage dissolution to probate.
   The constitutional amendment process is the most democratic, the most grass roots, the most respectful process available for the establishment of national policy - with extremely high hurdles, and appropriately so. It guarantees that the American people have a full and complete opportunity to speak to the issue, that they can express their views to their Senators, their Congressmen, and their state legislators. It takes time. But in the end, if a constitutional amendment passes - as opposed to a court decision - we know that the American people truly want it. And that is the very foundation of self-government.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder,202/224-7705.
 
 