SEN. KYL: WE CANNOT UNDERCUT OUR TROOPS
  The following are excerpts from remarks Sen. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) delivered today on the Senate floor regarding the war in Iraq and the upcoming Senate resolutions. The full text of the speech is available at http://kyl.senate.gov/legis_center/020107IraqFloorRemarks.pdf.  
   "Mr. President, I remember years ago I used to see bumper stickers that said 'give peace a chance.' I think today we need to dust off some of those bumper stickers and write a couple of words that say give the President's plan for peace a chance." 
   "We cannot send that message to our troops and to their families that we disagree with the mission that we're putting them in harm's way to try to achieve?our finest, have said, speaking to the American people, you can't say that you support the troops if you don't support what we're trying to do here, what we might trying to accomplish. That's why we have to be careful about resolutions in the United States Senate." 
   "We are not simply speaking to the President trying to send him a message. Everyone else in the world will get that message. And as much as we might manipulate the words in a resolution to try to bring 60 senators all in consensus to what the resolution says, we all know what the headlines the next morning are going to say all around the world if a resolution like this were to pass: 'Senate declares no confidence in President's strategy.' Or, 'U.S. Senate goes on record as opposing Bush plan.' You can write the headline. Those are the words that will resonate around the world." 
   "Let's not make any criticism of the President or his plan become a self-fulfilling prophecy. Let's be as united as we can in supporting our troops by supporting the mission that we're sending them on, hoping it will succeed; if we want, expressing concerns that we have about that but doing so in a way that doesn't undercut the message. We can do both of these things in this great, open society. People expect us to have great debate about important issues like matters of war and peace. And we can do that without undercutting the mission here."
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 