SEN. KYL TELLS SUBCOMMITTEE OF BILL TO EXPAND PETRIFIED FOREST NATIONAL PARK
  Sen. Jon Kyl told the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee's Subcommittee on National Parks today that legislation he has co-sponsored with Sen.  
 John McCain would expand Arizona's Petrified Forest National Park to protect "some of the most unique natural and cultural resources contained anywhere in the world."
   "No where else can you glimpse the fossil remains of an ancient wilderness ecosystem as it existed 30 million years ago," Kyl told the members of the subcommittee, upon which he serves. "Today we know that petrified wood is only a part of the globally significant record contained in the rock formation commonly known as the 'Chinle Escarpment' which cuts across the park." Scientists have found numerous paleontological deposits and nationally significant archeological sites, including ancient Pueblo cultural settings, in the escarpment, which also constitutes the best known record of Triassic period terrestrial ecosystems. However, only six miles of the 22-mile escarpment are within park boundaries.
   S. 784 would expand the park to include an additional 120,000 acres of checkerboarded federal, state, and private lands to protect against theft of petrified wood and fossils, pot hunting, vandalism to petroglyph sites and the environmental degregation caused by mineral exploration. Nearly ten years in the making, the expansion is supported by the private landowners, local communities, scientific and research institutions, state tourism agencies, and environmental groups.
   Joining Kyl in testifying in favor of the bill were Mike Fitzgerald, one of four landowners with property within the park expansion boundary, and Dr. David Gillette of the Museum of Northern Arizona in Flagstaff, who spoke on behalf of 10 organizations including the museum, Chamber of Commerce and the National Parks Conservation Association.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 