ENSURING SENIORS' ACCESS TO LIFE-SAVING PRESCRIPTION DRUGS
  "Social Security offices around the country are being swamped with questions about how to use the [new Medicare] card." "Many doctors and hospital administrators, as well as patients, do not understand the program."  
   These are excerpts from a front-page story in the July 1, 1966 edition of the New York Times about the original Medicare program. Critics at the time said the President - Lyndon Baines Johnson - had "failed tragically" to prepare for the start of Medicare. 
   Yet, as we all know, despite the rocky start, Medicare has evolved into one of the most successful programs in our nation's history - part of the bedrock contract between our government and senior citizens. I believe that the new Medicare prescription-drug benefit will be just as successful once initial implementation problems are resolved. 
   By now, we've all seen the stories about some seniors having difficulties getting the prescription drugs they need. Fortunately, the problem does not appear to be as widespread in Arizona as in some other states, but one senior left without the medicine he or she needs is one too many. (Of course, before this program, the government provided no Medicare drug benefit.) 
   The good news is that Medicare appears to be moving quickly to resolve these initial problems. According to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), an additional 4,400 people have been hired to man customer service and eligibility verification phone lines, which are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. CMS is holding weekly conferences with pharmacy associations to ensure that pharmacists have the most complete, up-to-date information about the new benefit. And the agency has contracted with a national prescription-drug plan to provide interim coverage so that no one is turned away. 
   While there have been some problems, far more has gone well. Since coverage became available on January 1, almost 24 million seniors have been enrolled; the program has filled about 1 million prescriptions a day. According to a poll by Ayres, McHenry and Associates, 51 percent of seniors responding said they expected the new Medicare prescription-drug plan would save them money. Fifty-seven percent said it was worth the time and effort to evaluate the many drug plans available to them. 
   The challenge is to continue to build on these positive developments, while solving problems as quickly as possible. If an individual is unable to get needed medication in an emergency situation, his or her pharmacist should call 1-800-MEDICARE and tell the customer service representative that a beneficiary has an emergency situation. Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt has pledged: "If you are one of those seniors experiencing problems, our message is: Don't leave the pharmacy without your drugs." "There is no reason for you to go without your medicines ... or for you to have to pay more than you owe." 
   If you are experiencing difficulty obtaining the drugs you need, here are some important phone numbers for you to remember: 
   * For Medicare customer service, call 1-800-MEDICARE; 
   * The federal government has agreements with state health insurance programs that offer free one-on-one health-benefits counseling for Medicare beneficiaries. Arizona seniors who wish to make an appointment should call (800) 432-4040; 
   * You can also call the customer service number for the health plan in which you are enrolled; or 
   * Call one of my offices: in Phoenix, (602) 840-1891; in Tucson, (520) 575-8633; or in Washington, (202) 224-4521.
   I am proud to have served on the House-Senate conference committee that helped write the new Medicare prescription-drug law, which brings Medicare into the 21st century. Many life-threatening ailments once treated only by surgery are now treated, with better results, with prescription-drug regimens that allow people to live healthier, more productive lives. I am encouraged by participation in the program so far. I am also committed to fixing as quickly as possible implementation problems that arise.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 