SENATE APPROVES SENS. KYL-FEINSTEIN BUDGET AMENDMENT TO FULLY FUND STATE CRIMINAL ALIEN ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
  Sens. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.) and Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) today announced that the U.S. Senate approved an amendment to the Senate Budget Resolution to fully fund a program that reimburses states and local governments for the costs associated with incarcerating illegal criminal aliens.  
   The Kyl-Feinstein amendment increases the budget allocation for the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAAP) to its fully authorized level of $950 million. The President's budget zeroed out funding, and the Senate Budget Resolution previously included only $407 million, less than half of the authorized amount. 
   "State and local jails and prisons, particularly in border states like Arizona, must bear the heavy cost of incarcerating criminal illegal aliens," said Kyl. "This burden is a federal responsibility, and I am pleased this budget authority will help provide the much-needed relief to state and local governments." 
   "Each year, states, and specifically the border states, spend hundreds of millions of dollars to incarcerate criminal aliens. Their only source of reimbursement is through the SCAAP program," said Feinstein. "The real problem here is that the problem of illegal immigration is a federal responsibility. Yet, the federal government has no problem shifting the costs for enforcing immigration laws onto our states. This cost-shifting is not fair to state governments. It is a federal responsibility, and we must fund it." 
   The Senate Budget Resolution provides a spending blueprint that helps determine levels at which our government is funded. 
   SCAAP provides federal payments to states and localities that incurred correctional officer salary costs for incarcerating undocumented criminal aliens with at least one felony or two misdemeanor convictions for violations of state or local law, and incarcerated for at least four consecutive days during the reporting period.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 