REMEMBERING CRIME'S VICTIMS
  By Sen. Jon Kyl
   The commemoration of National Crime Victims Rights Week is always a bittersweet occasion. 
   Earlier this month, victims, advocacy groups and others around the country paused to draw attention to the losses suffered by millions of Americans at the hands of criminals, as well as victims' struggle for justice. For too long, our court system has tilted in favor of accused criminals - who are, of course, innocent until proven guilty - but often has been appallingly indifferent toward the suffering of crime victims.  
   But that is finally beginning to change with the enactment of the Crime Victims Rights Act last fall. That measure, which I cosponsored with Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), establishes new guarantees of basic rights under federal law for victims of crime. It establishes the right to be reasonably protected, notified, present, and heard at critical stages, as well as the right to confer with the prosecutor, to restitution, to proceedings free from unreasonable delay, and to be treated with fairness and respect. Most significantly, the new law provided victims with legal standing to enforce these rights, including access to federal appeals courts if necessary. 
   The bill is dedicated to victims, including Nila Lynn of Phoenix, who was murdered at a homeowner's association meeting on April 19, 2000 by a man unhappy with the way the association had trimmed the bushes in his yard. Nila died on the floor in the arms of her husband, Duane, three months short of their 50th wedding anniversary. Duane wanted a sentence of life without parole, rather than endure the continuing appeals of a capital case, but despite clear constitutional and statutory rights, he was not allowed to make such a recommendation. The killer received the death sentence. 
   The Crime Victims Rights Act is the most comprehensive legislation ever passed to protect the rights of crime victims. It will ensure that they will no longer be relegated to observer status in federal cases against their attackers. Victims, like Duane Lynn, will no longer be silenced. Now, they can be active participants in the pursuit of justice, as they should be. 
   To put these guarantees into practice, Congress will have to make good on its promise to appropriate the necessary money. And I am committed to fight for those resources. 
   While I have long supported a constitutional amendment for victims' rights, it does not have the 67 votes required for passage in the Senate. A statutory alternative represents real progress, but it will still have to be tested in the courts. And we will need legal clinics to represent victims - at no charge - if we are to give the new system a fair assessment. 
   During this year's National Crime Victims' Rights Week, April 10 through 16, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales honored recipients of the National Crime Victims' Rights Week Awards and announced more than $542 million for compensation to crime victims, as well as programs providing crisis intervention, counseling, emergency shelter, funeral and burial costs, coverage of lost wages or support, and criminal justice advocacy. 
   It was President Ronald Reagan who declared the first National Crime Victims' Rights Week in 1981. The target of a nearly successful assassination attempt, he understood that our legal system owes fairness and due process not only to accused criminals, but also to the victims. Enactment of the Crime Victims Rights Act has helped balance the scales of justice for victims.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 