SHIELDING OUR INDEPENDENCE
  As the nation observes Independence Day this year, we should be humbled by what it has taken to preserve America's independence. We should be equally cognizant of the forces that could attack us today, and do what is required to continue protecting the American people. 
   The world has closely watched to see whether North Korea will conduct a long-range missile test. At this writing, reports indicate that North Korea is poised to launch an inter-continental ballistic missile (ICBM), that is capable of striking Alaska, Hawaii, and possibly the continental United States as far as Phoenix.  
   The North Korean regime has been implacably hostile to the United States, a point it makes frequently through its government-run media. Moreover, the insulated regime in Pyongyang has shown the propensity to act irrationally and with complete disregard for the welfare of its own subjugated people. If any country in the world is likely not to budge in the face of international pressure, North Korea is it. 
   This is not our first standoff with North Korea; unfortunately, it is unlikely to be our last. North Korea, like its ally, Iran, already has the capability of attacking its neighbors. That alone could require the U.S. to take action. This is especially troublesome because North Korea is believed to have a small stockpile of nuclear weapons, and may be producing as many as six additional devices every year. 
   North Korean success in missile development may exacerbate threats elsewhere. Iran's missile technology is based on North Korean designs, and there is little reason to believe that further technology transfer between the two rogue nations won't occur. Reports indicate that Iran, even without North Korean help, could test flight an ICBM capable of reaching our allies, and possibly the United States, by 2015. 
   These disturbing facts all highlight the need for a national missile defense system. I have been a vocal advocate of missile defense since I was elected to the House of Representatives and, in recent years, have been encouraged by the progress made by the Missile Defense Agency. Although the system is far from perfect, our ability to defend this country from a missile attack is growing every day. Without development of this technology, we wouldn't have even a limited defense against the sort of unprovoked attack that North Korea might try to launch. 
   It is critical that the United States continue to proceed rapidly with the development and deployment of this layered, integrated national missile-defense system. When we face potentially volatile regimes like the one in Pyongyang, only missile defenses can ensure the protection of this nation and our citizens. Even Democratic opponents of missile defense have come to acknowledge this threat, as they have - for the first time in years - supporting amendments to increase missile-defense funding during debate over defense legislation in June. 
   In light of recent events, I find the words of Peter Flory, Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy, particularly fitting: "The U.S. government was criticized in the wake of 9/11 for not 'connecting the dots' on the terrorist threat and failing to act to prevent the attacks. With respect to the ballistic missile threat, the dots are out there for all to see." We must connect the dots here in the Senate, and make sure that we dedicate the funds necessary to protect us from our lethally armed adversaries in places like North Korea and Iran. To do otherwise would be a dereliction of our duty.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 