SEN. KYL ADDRESSES HISPANIC LEADERSHIP SUMMIT ON IMMIGRATION, EDUCATION, TAX REFORM
  Sen. Kyl today addressed the National Hispanic Leadership Summit on a wide variety of issues, celebrating Latino contributions to American society and focusing on ways to broaden economic opportunity and political involvement.  
   "Latino Americans have become integral to our society: as business men and women, as honored members of our armed forces, as taxpayers, as workers, and as consumers with enormous buying power," Kyl said. "Your organizations represent very determined people who strive for the American Dream. They contribute to civic life in all kinds of ways - yet they are less inclined than others to participate in the political process. We must change this, and conferences like this one are definitely steps in the right direction." Kyl addressed several major issues in his address, including immigration, tax reform, and education. 
   Noting that "most Americans believe legal immigration is a good thing for our country, and when there is a labor need, they also support temporary work programs," Kyl said, "We need to reform our immigration system so that it works well for everyone and so everyone will have an incentive to work within the law. For reforms to have any credibility with the American people, they must be based on the rule of law and meet employment needs. Legislation that Senator John Cornyn of Texas and I have introduced would, I believe, provide a workable solution to our current illegal immigration problems. Our proposal will make it very difficult to work here illegally, but it will make it easier to legally hire needed foreign workers. 
   "One other positive immigration development," Kyl added, is that "Citizenship and Immigration Services is working to reduce its backlog for processing immigration benefits such as naturalization, permanent residency, and work authorization. CIS also has an Internet-based system now so applicants can schedule appointments with CIS officers. This should cut down on the time they spend waiting in line." 
   Kyl also highlighted his support for tax reform and relief in his address, noting that, "This audience already knows that Latino Americans thrive in the private sector; but the actual figures are pretty amazing. Self-employment by Latinos grew by 41 percent between 2000 and 2003. The growth is even more impressive for businesses owned by Latinos: up 62.4 percent for the seven years that ended in 2004. In Arizona, 8.7 percent of the state's businesses were Latino-owned as of 2002; some experts believe the number is closer to 10 percent. 
   "While the priority now is to help assist and rebuild in the Gulf region after its terrible storms, to continue such growth we must not lose sight of the national benefits of a low-tax agenda. After all, it's the private sector, business leaders like you, who do so much to create jobs and spark the kind of recovery we need." As examples, Kyl cited reforming the Alternative Minimum Tax, which increasingly hits middle-class families, and eliminating the "death tax," which makes it difficult for entrepreneurs to pass their life's work on to their children. 
   While celebrating progress in areas like homeownership, which for Latinos rose from 46.1 percent in 2003 to a record high of 49.7 percent in 2005, Kyl also expressed concern about the gap in high school graduation rates between Hispanic and non-Hispanic whites, calling education "the great equalizer in America. The No Child Left Behind Act was written because the failure of public schools to deliver for black and Latino youngsters was being buried in aggregate statistics." But Kyl noted that the Act is beginning to produce results: According to the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP), often referred to as "the nation's report card," reading and math scores for Latino nine-year-olds, and math scores for Latino 13-year-olds, are at all-time highs. Over the past five years, Latino nine-year-olds' reading scores are up 12 points and math scores are up 17 points, and the achievement gap between white and Latino nine-year-olds in reading and math is at an all-time low." 
   Arizona business leaders at the summit included: Elias Bermudez of the Help Center; Alan Castillo of Castillo Technologies; Blanca Esparza of the Arizona Latino Republican Association; Jose Luis Esparza of Southwest Gas Corporation; Ernie Feliz of Pinal County; Graciela Figueroa of Central Arizona College; and Frank Rivera of ATL Incorporated, vice chair and a member of the board of directors of the National Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 