STATE OF OUR UNION 2007
  In this year's State of the Union address, the President outlined his priorities for the nation in the coming year. 
   HEALTH CARE REFORM 
   The most innovative idea was his proposal to reform the tax code to help people afford health insurance. The proposal would provide the same tax incentives currently given to an employer to families or individuals who purchase insurance on their own. Under this plan, individuals who buy basic health insurance would not pay income or payroll taxes on the first $7,500 of compensation ($15,000 for families). The goal is to allow Americans to keep more of their income, to choose the type of health coverage they want and that best suits their health-care needs, and to increase competition among the cost and types of health plans available. 
   GOVERNMENT SPENDING REFORM  
   The President stressed the importance of changing the spending habits of the federal government, calling on Congress to curtail spending and reform the practice of earmarking. He reminded us that the best way to reduce the deficit and balance the budget is not to raise taxes on hardworking Americans, but to end wasteful Washington spending. 
   ENERGY PLAN 
   The President's energy plans presented fewer new ideas and looked more like campaign proposals than real solutions - like the commitment for a 20 percent gasoline reduction by mandating a sharp increase in the amount of ethanol and other alternative fuels that must be blended into the fuel supply. This is fine for Midwest farmers, but expensive for the rest of us. 
   In the Washington Post recently, columnist Robert Samuelson highlighted one of my concerns; he wrote, "Ethanol receives heavy federal subsidies. Oil refiners that blend it with gasoline get a 51-cents-a-gallon tax credit. The subsidy causes them to buy more ethanol, increasing corn demand?[C]orn farmers love this. They've been the program's main beneficiaries." I would prefer that we bring an end to this farm subsidy and instead devote our resources toward promoting the research and development of battery technology for hybrid vehicles and similar initiatives. 
   The President also said we could save gasoline by increasing the government-mandated fuel economy standards. Once again, this proposal may seem simple, but the repercussions could be severe. In the past, these government mandates have led the automobile industry to smaller, lightweight vehicles that have resulted in thousands more automobile deaths and casualties. That's not a good tradeoff. 
   WAR AGAINST THE TERRORISTS 
   The President did a far better job explaining how our mission in Iraq is directly linked to our national security. In his speech, he stated, "This war is more than a clash of arms - it is a decisive ideological struggle, and the security of our nation is in the balance." 
   The President went on to say that, "This is not the fight we entered in Iraq, but it is the fight we're in?al Qaeda and other Sunni extremists blew up one of the most sacred places in Shia Islam - the Golden Mosque of Samarra. This atrocity, directed at a Muslim house of prayer, was designed to provoke retaliation from Iraqi Shia - and it succeeded. Radical Shia elements, some of whom receive support from Iran, formed death squads. The result was a tragic escalation of sectarian rage and reprisal that continues to this day." 
   His words highlight our plight today. Iraq is not a "local matter" that we can simply opt out of; it's a conflict we must win to prevent the formation of a terrorist safe haven that would surely threaten our national security in the future. 
   I applaud the President's leadership and I hope that the 110th Congress will consider his ideas and work across party lines to strengthen America.
   Contact: Andrew Wilder and Ryan Patmintra, 202/224-4521.
 
 