SEN. KYL PRAISES CONFERENCE REPORT ON IRAQ SUPPLEMENTAL
  Sen. Jon Kyl today applauded the conference committee approval of an $82.04 billion FY 2005 Emergency Supplemental bill that includes funding for the global war on terrorism in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere, as well as other defense-related activities and provisions to improve border enforcement.  
   "We must always assure our troops have what it takes to perform their missions," Kyl said, adding that "the border provisions are key to our efforts to restore respect for the rule of law and improve homeland security against the possibility of terrorist infiltration." 
   Expected to be approved by the Senate early next week, the bill includes significant new funding Kyl requested, including $635 million for increased border security, which will allow the hiring of 500 new border patrol agents, 50 immigration and Customs inspectors, 168 enforcement agents and detention officers, as well as 1,950 detention beds that will help prevent the release, for lack of a place to keep them, of those who should be deported. 
   Also included in Division B of the supplemental, as part of the House-passed Real ID Act, are three major provisions from the Material Support to Terrorism Prohibition Improvements Act, which Kyl introduced earlier this year and reviewed in hearings before his Subcommittee on Terrorism, Technology and Homeland Security. 
   Section 103(a) bars entry into the United States for representatives and members of terrorist groups and aliens who have received military-type training from groups they knew were terrorist in nature. 
   Section 105(a)(1) expands the deportation of such aliens who may already be in the United States. 
   Section 103(d) makes clear that terrorist-alien deportation and exclusion provisions apply to terrorist activity that the alien engaged in before the enactment of the supplemental.
   "Enforcement of our laws and controlling the border are among the most critical domestic challenges we face in the war against terrorism," Kyl said. "This funding will provide much needed help to the border and add to our enforcement capabilities, but we're still a long way from achieving the kind of security we need."
   Contact: Scot Montrey, 202/224-2206; Andrew Wilder, 202/224-7705.
 
 